CALIBRE-SMTP(1)                     calibre                    CALIBRE-SMTP(1)

NAME
       calibre-smtp - calibre-smtp

          calibre-smtp [options] [from to text]

       Send mail using the SMTP protocol. calibre-smtp has two modes of opera‐
       tion. In the compose mode you specify from to and text  and  these  are
       used  to  build  and  send  an email message. In the filter mode, cali‐
       bre-smtp reads a complete email message from STDIN and sends it.

       text is the body of the email message.  If text  is  not  specified,  a
       complete  email  message is read from STDIN.  from is the email address
       of the sender and to is the email address of the recipient. When a com‐
       plete  email  is read from STDIN, from and to are only used in the SMTP
       negotiation, the message headers are not modified.

       Whenever you pass arguments to calibre-smtp that have spaces  in  them,
       enclose the arguments in quotation marks. For example: "/some path/with
       spaces"

[OPTIONS]
       --fork, -f
              Fork and deliver message in background. If you use this  option,
              you should also use --outbox to handle delivery failures.

       --help, -h
              show this help message and exit

       --localhost, -l
              Host name of localhost. Used when connecting to SMTP server.

       --outbox, -o
              Path to maildir folder to store failed email messages in.

       --timeout, -t
              Timeout for connection

       --verbose, -v
              Be more verbose

       --version
              show program's version number and exit

   COMPOSE MAIL
       Options to compose an email. Ignored if text is not specified

       --attachment, -a
              File to attach to the email

       --subject, -s
              Subject of the email

   SMTP RELAY
       Options  to  use an SMTP relay server to send mail. calibre will try to
       send the email directly unless --relay is specified.

       --cafile
              Path to a file of concatenated CA certificates  in  PEM  format,
              used  to  verify  the  server certificate when using TLS. By de‐
              fault, the system CA certificates are used.

       --dont-verify-server-certificate
              Do not verify the server certificate when connecting using  TLS.
              This  used to be the default behavior in calibre versions before
              3.27. If you are using a relay with a self-signed  or  otherwise
              invalid  certificate, you can use this option to restore the pre
              3.27 behavior

       --encryption-method, -e
              Encryption method to use when connecting to relay.  Choices  are
              TLS,  SSL  and  NONE.  Default is TLS. WARNING: Choosing NONE is
              highly insecure

       --password, -p
              Password for relay

       --port Port to connect to on relay server. Default is to use 465 if en‐
              cryption method is SSL and 25 otherwise.

       --relay, -r
              An SMTP relay server to use to send mail.

       --username, -u
              Username for relay

AUTHOR
       Kovid Goyal

COPYRIGHT
       Kovid Goyal

6.13.0                         February 17, 2023               CALIBRE-SMTP(1)
