CALIBRE-DEBUG(1)                    calibre                   CALIBRE-DEBUG(1)

NAME
       calibre-debug - calibre-debug

          calibre-debug [options]

       Various  command  line interfaces useful for debugging calibre. With no
       options, this command starts an embedded Python  interpreter.  You  can
       also  run the main calibre GUI, the calibre E-book viewer and the cali‐
       bre editor in debug mode.

       It also contains interfaces to various bits of calibre that do not have
       dedicated  command line tools, such as font subsetting, the E-book diff
       tool and so on.

       You can also use calibre-debug to run standalone scripts.  To  do  that
       use it like this:
          calibre-debug -e myscript.py -- --option1 --option2 file1 file2 ...

       Everything after the -- is passed to the script. You can also use cali‐
       bre-debug as a shebang in scripts, like this:
          #!/usr/bin/env -S calibre-debug -e -- --

       Whenever you pass arguments to calibre-debug that have spaces in  them,
       enclose the arguments in quotation marks. For example: "/some path/with
       spaces"

[OPTIONS]
       --add-simple-plugin
              Add a simple plugin (i.e. a plugin that consists of only  a  .py
              file),  by  specifying  the  path  to the py file containing the
              plugin code.

       --command, -c
              Run Python code.

       --debug-device-driver, -d
              Debug device detection

       --default-programs
              (Un)register   calibre   from    Windows    Default    Programs.
              --default-programs = (register|unregister)

       --diff Run  the  calibre  diff  tool. For example: calibre-debug --diff
              file1 file2

       --edit-book
              Launch the calibre "Edit book" tool in debug mode.

       --exec-file, -e
              Run the Python code in file.

       --explode-book, -x
              Explode the book into the specified folder. Usage: -x  file.epub
              output_dir  Exports  the  book as a collection of HTML files and
              metadata, which you can edit using standard HTML editing  tools.
              Works with EPUB, AZW3, HTMLZ and DOCX files.

       --export-all-calibre-data
              Export  all calibre data (books/settings/plugins). Normally, you
              will be asked for the export folder and the libraries to export.
              You  can also specify them as command line arguments to skip the
              questions. Use absolute paths for  the  export  folder  and  li‐
              braries. The special keyword "all" can be used to export all li‐
              braries. Examples:    calibre-debug --export-all-calibre-data  #
              for  interactive  use    calibre-debug --export-all-calibre-data
              /path/to/empty/export/folder            /path/to/library/folder1
              /path/to/library2   calibre-debug --export-all-calibre-data /ex‐
              port/folder all  # export all known libraries

       --fix-multiprocessing
              For internal use

       --gui, -g
              Run the GUI with debugging enabled. Debug output is  printed  to
              stdout and stderr.

       --gui-debug
              Run the GUI with a debug console, logging to the specified path.
              For internal use only, use the -g option to run the GUI in debug
              mode

       --help, -h
              show this help message and exit

       --implode-book, -i
              Implode   a  previously  exploded  book.  Usage:  -i  output_dir
              file.epub Imports the book from the files  in  output_dir  which
              must  have been created by a previous call to --explode-book. Be
              sure to specify the same file type as was used when exploding.

       --import-calibre-data
              Import previously exported calibre data

       --inspect-mobi, -m
              Inspect the MOBI file(s) at the specified path(s)

       --paths
              Output the paths necessary to setup the calibre environment

       --run-plugin, -r
              Run a plugin that provides a command line interface.  For  exam‐
              ple:  calibre-debug  -r  "Plugin name" -- file1 --option1 Every‐
              thing after the -- will be passed to the plugin as arguments.

       --run-test, -t
              Run the named test(s). Use the special value "all"  to  run  all
              tests. If the test name starts with a period it is assumed to be
              a module name. If the test name starts with @ it is  assumed  to
              be a category name.

       --run-without-debug
              Don't run with the DEBUG flag set

       --shutdown-running-calibre, -s
              Cause  a  running calibre instance, if any, to be shutdown. Note
              that if there are running jobs, they will be  silently  aborted,
              so use with care.

       --subset-font, -f
              Subset  the specified font. Use -- after this option to pass op‐
              tion to the font subsetting program.

       --test-build
              Test binary modules in build

       --version
              show program's version number and exit

       --viewer, -w
              Run the E-book viewer in debug mode

AUTHOR
       Kovid Goyal

COPYRIGHT
       Kovid Goyal

6.13.0                         February 17, 2023              CALIBRE-DEBUG(1)
