troff: <standard input>:254: warning [p 4, 6.2i]: can't break line
CALIBRE-SERVER(1)                   calibre                  CALIBRE-SERVER(1)

NAME
       calibre-server - calibre-server

          calibre-server [options] [path to library folder...]

       Start  the  calibre  Content server. The calibre Content server exposes
       your calibre libraries over the internet. You can specify the  path  to
       the library folders as arguments to calibre-server. If you do not spec‐
       ify any paths, all the libraries that the main  calibre  program  knows
       about will be used.

       Whenever you pass arguments to calibre-server that have spaces in them,
       enclose the arguments in quotation marks. For example: "/some path/with
       spaces"

[OPTIONS]
       --access-log
              Path to the access log file. This log contains information about
              clients connecting to the server and making requests. By default
              no access logging is done.

       --ajax-timeout
              Time  (in  seconds)  to wait for a response from the server when
              making queries.

       --auth-mode
              Choose the type of authentication used.     Set the HTTP authen‐
              tication  mode  used  by  the  server. Set to "basic" if you are
              putting this server behind an SSL proxy. Otherwise, leave it  as
              "auto", which will use "basic" if SSL is configured otherwise it
              will use "digest".

       --auto-reload
              Automatically reload server when source code changes. Useful for
              development. You should also specify a small value for the shut‐
              down timeout.

       --ban-after
              Number of login failures for ban.   The number of login failures
              after which an IP address is banned

       --ban-for
              Ban IP addresses that have repeated login failures.         Tem‐
              porarily bans access for IP addresses that have  repeated  login
              failures  for the specified number of minutes. Useful to prevent
              attempts at guessing passwords. If set to zero,  no  banning  is
              done.

       --book-list-mode
              Choose  the  default  book list mode.  Set the default book list
              mode that will be used for new users. Individual users can over‐
              ride  the default in their own settings. The default is to use a
              cover grid.

       --compress-min-size
              Minimum size  for  which  responses  use  data  compression  (in
              bytes).

       --custom-list-template
              Path  to  a  JSON file containing a template for the custom book
              list mode. The easiest way to create such a template file is  to
              go to Preferences-> Sharing over the net-> Book list template in
              calibre, create the template and export it.

       --daemonize
              Run process in background as a daemon (Linux only).

       --displayed-fields
              Restrict displayed user-defined fields.     Comma separated list
              of  user-defined  metadata  fields that will be displayed by the
              Content server in the /opds and /mobile views.  If  you  specify
              this  option, any fields not in this list will not be displayed.
              For example: my_rating,my_tags

       --enable-allow-socket-preallocation,  --disable-allow-socket-prealloca‐
       tion
              Socket  pre-allocation, for example, with systemd socket activa‐
              tion. By default, this option is enabled.

       --enable-auth, --disable-auth
              Password based authentication to access the server.         Nor‐
              mally, the server is unrestricted, allowing anyone to access it.
              You can restrict access to predefined users with this option. By
              default, this option is disabled.

       --enable-fallback-to-detected-interface,      --disable-fallback-to-de‐
       tected-interface
              Fallback to auto-detected interface.        If for  some  reason
              the  server  is unable to bind to the interface specified in the
              listen_on option, then it will try to detect an  interface  that
              connects to the outside world and bind to that. By default, this
              option is enabled.

       --enable-local-write, --disable-local-write
              Allow un-authenticated local connections to make changes.   Nor‐
              mally, if you do not turn on authentication, the server operates
              in read-only mode, so as to not allow anonymous  users  to  make
              changes  to  your  calibre libraries. This option allows anybody
              connecting from the same computer as the server is running on to
              make changes. This is useful if you want to run the server with‐
              out authentication but still use calibredb to  make  changes  to
              your  calibre  libraries. Note that turning on this option means
              any program running on the computer can  make  changes  to  your
              calibre libraries. By default, this option is disabled.

       --enable-log-not-found, --disable-log-not-found
              Log  HTTP  404  (Not Found) requests.  Normally, the server logs
              all HTTP requests for resources that are  not  found.  This  can
              generate  a lot of log spam, if your server is targeted by bots.
              Use this option to turn it off. By default, this option  is  en‐
              abled.

       --enable-use-bonjour, --disable-use-bonjour
              Advertise OPDS feeds via BonJour.   Advertise the OPDS feeds via
              the BonJour service, so that OPDS based reading apps can  detect
              and connect to the server automatically. By default, this option
              is enabled.

       --enable-use-sendfile, --disable-use-sendfile
              Zero copy file transfers for increased performance.         This
              will  use  zero-copy in-kernel transfers when sending files over
              the network, increasing performance. However, it can cause  cor‐
              rupted file transfers on some broken filesystems. If you experi‐
              ence corrupted file transfers, turn it off. By default, this op‐
              tion is enabled.

       --help, -h
              show this help message and exit

       --ignored-fields
              Ignored user-defined metadata fields.       Comma separated list
              of user-defined metadata fields that will not  be  displayed  by
              the  Content server in the /opds and /mobile views. For example:
              my_rating,my_tags

       --listen-on
              The interface on which to listen for connections.   The  default
              is  to  listen  on all available IPv4 interfaces. You can change
              this to, for example, "127.0.0.1" to only listen for connections
              from  the  local  machine,  or to "::" to listen to all incoming
              IPv6 and IPv4 connections.

       --log  Path to log file for server log. This log contains server infor‐
              mation  and errors, not access logs. By default it is written to
              stdout.

       --manage-users
              Manage the database of users allowed to connect to this  server.
              You  can  use  it  in  automated  mode by adding a --. See cali‐
              bre-server --manage-users -- help  for  details.  See  also  the
              --userdb option.

       --max-header-line-size
              Max. size of single HTTP header (in KB).

       --max-job-time
              Maximum  time  for  worker  processes.   Maximum  amount of time
              worker processes are allowed to run (in minutes).  Set  to  zero
              for no limit.

       --max-jobs
              Maximum number of worker processes.         Worker processes are
              launched as needed and used for large jobs such as  preparing  a
              book  for  viewing, adding books, converting, etc. Normally, the
              max. number of such processes is based  on  the  number  of  CPU
              cores. You can control it by this setting.

       --max-log-size
              Max.  log  file  size  (in  MB).         The maximum size of log
              files, generated by the server. When the log becomes larger than
              this  size,  it is automatically rotated. Set to zero to disable
              log rotation.

       --max-opds-items
              Maximum number of books in OPDS feeds.      The  maximum  number
              of  books  that the server will return in a single OPDS acquisi‐
              tion feed.

       --max-opds-ungrouped-items
              Maximum number of ungrouped items in OPDS feeds.    Group  items
              in categories such as author/tags by first letter when there are
              more than this number of items. Set to zero to disable.

       --max-request-body-size
              Max. allowed size for files uploaded to the server (in MB).

       --num-per-page
              Number of books to show in a single page.   The number of  books
              to show in a single page in the browser.

       --pidfile
              Write process PID to the specified file

       --port The port on which to listen for connections.

       --search-the-net-urls
              Path  to  a JSON file containing URLs for the "Search the inter‐
              net" feature. The easiest way to create such a file is to go  to
              Preferences-> Sharing over the net->Search the internet in cali‐
              bre, create the URLs and export them.

       --shutdown-timeout
              Total time in seconds to wait for clean shutdown.

       --ssl-certfile
              Path to the SSL certificate file.

       --ssl-keyfile
              Path to the SSL private key file.

       --timeout
              Time (in seconds) after which an idle connection is closed.

       --trusted-ips
              Allow un-authenticated connections from specific IP addresses to
              make  changes.       Normally, if you do not turn on authentica‐
              tion, the server operates in read-only mode, so as to not  allow
              anonymous  users to make changes to your calibre libraries. This
              option allows anybody connecting from the specified IP addresses
              to  make  changes.  Must be a comma separated list of address or
              network specifications. This is useful if you want  to  run  the
              server  without  authentication  but still use calibredb to make
              changes to your calibre libraries. Note that turning on this op‐
              tion means anyone connecting from the specified IP addresses can
              make changes to your calibre libraries.

       --url-prefix
              A prefix to prepend to all URLs.    Useful if you  wish  to  run
              this server behind a reverse proxy. For example use, /calibre as
              the URL prefix.

       --userdb
              Path to the user database to use for authentication.  The  data‐
              base  is a SQLite file. To create it use --manage-users. You can
              read       more       about       managing       users       at:
              https://manual.calibre-ebook.com/server.html#managing-user-accounts-from-the-command-line-only

       --version
              show program's version number and exit

       --worker-count
              Number of worker threads used to process requests.

AUTHOR
       Kovid Goyal

COPYRIGHT
       Kovid Goyal

6.13.0                         February 17, 2023             CALIBRE-SERVER(1)
