EBOOK-VIEWER(1)                     calibre                    EBOOK-VIEWER(1)

NAME
       ebook-viewer - ebook-viewer

          ebook-viewer [options] file

       View an e-book.

       Whenever  you  pass arguments to ebook-viewer that have spaces in them,
       enclose the arguments in quotation marks. For example: "/some path/with
       spaces"

[OPTIONS]
       --continue
              Continue reading the last opened book

       --detach
              Detach from the controlling terminal, if any (Linux only)

       --force-reload
              Force reload of all opened books

       --full-screen, --fullscreen, -f
              If  specified,  the  E-book  viewer window will try to open full
              screen when started.

       --help, -h
              show this help message and exit

       --open-at
              The position at which to open the specified book.  The  position
              is  a location or position you can get by using the Go to->Loca‐
              tion action in the viewer controls. Alternately, you can use the
              form toc:something and it will open at the location of the first
              Table of Contents entry that contains  the  string  "something".
              The  form  toc-href:something will match the href (internal link
              destination) of toc nodes. The matching is exact. If you want to
              match a substring, use the form toc-href-contains:something. The
              form ref:something will use Reference mode references. The  form
              search:something  will  search  for  something after opening the
              book. The form regex:something will search for the  regular  ex‐
              pression something after opening the book.

       --raise-window
              If  specified,  the E-book viewer window will try to come to the
              front when started.

       --version
              show program's version number and exit

AUTHOR
       Kovid Goyal

COPYRIGHT
       Kovid Goyal

6.13.0                         February 17, 2023               EBOOK-VIEWER(1)
