EBOOK-META(1)                       calibre                      EBOOK-META(1)

NAME
       ebook-meta - ebook-meta

          ebook-meta ebook_file [options]

       Read/Write metadata from/to e-book files.

       Supported  formats  for  reading  metadata: azw, azw1, azw3, azw4, cb7,
       cbc, cbr, cbz, chm, docx, epub, fb2, fbz, html, htmlz, imp,  lit,  lrf,
       lrx,  mobi,  odt, oebzip, opf, pdb, pdf, pml, pmlz, pobi, prc, rar, rb,
       rtf, snb, tpz, txt, txtz, updb, zip

       Supported formats for writing metadata: azw, azw1,  azw3,  azw4,  docx,
       epub, fb2, fbz, htmlz, lrf, mobi, odt, pdb, pdf, prc, rtf, tpz, txtz

       Different file types support different kinds of metadata. If you try to
       set some metadata on a file type that does not support it, the metadata
       will be silently ignored.

       Whenever you pass arguments to ebook-meta that have spaces in them, en‐
       close the arguments in quotation marks. For example:  "/some  path/with
       spaces"

[OPTIONS]
       --author-sort
              String  to  be  used when sorting by author. If unspecified, and
              the author(s) are specified, it will be auto-generated from  the
              author(s).

       --authors, -a
              Set  the  authors. Multiple authors should be separated by the &
              character. Author names should be in the order  Firstname  Last‐
              name.

       --book-producer, -k
              Set the book producer.

       --category
              Set the book category.

       --comments, -c
              Set the e-book description.

       --cover
              Set the cover to the specified file.

       --date, -d
              Set the published date.

       --from-opf
              Read  metadata  from  the  specified  OPF file and use it to set
              metadata in the e-book. Metadata specified on the  command  line
              will override metadata read from the OPF file

       --get-cover
              Get  the  cover  from the e-book and save it at as the specified
              file.

       --help, -h
              show this help message and exit

       --identifier
              Set the identifiers for the  book,  can  be  specified  multiple
              times.    For    example:    --identifier   uri:https://acme.com
              --identifier isbn:12345 To  remove  an  identifier,  specify  no
              value,  --identifier  isbn: Note that for EPUB files, an identi‐
              fier marked as the package identifier cannot be removed.

       --index, -i
              Set the index of the book in this series.

       --isbn Set the ISBN of the book.

       --language, -l
              Set the language.

       --lrf-bookid
              Set the BookID in LRF files

       --publisher, -p
              Set the e-book publisher.

       --rating, -r
              Set the rating. Should be a number between 1 and 5.

       --series, -s
              Set the series this e-book belongs to.

       --tags Set the tags for the book. Should be a comma separated list.

       --title, -t
              Set the title.

       --title-sort
              The version of the title to be used for sorting. If unspecified,
              and  the  title is specified, it will be auto-generated from the
              title.

       --to-opf
              Specify the name of an OPF file. The metadata will be written to
              the OPF file.

       --version
              show program's version number and exit

AUTHOR
       Kovid Goyal

COPYRIGHT
       Kovid Goyal

6.13.0                         February 17, 2023                 EBOOK-META(1)
