EBOOK-POLISH(1)                     calibre                    EBOOK-POLISH(1)

NAME
       ebook-polish - ebook-polish

          ebook-polish [options] input_file [output_file]

       Polishing  books is all about putting the shine of perfection onto your
       carefully crafted e-books.

       Polishing tries to minimize the changes to the internal  code  of  your
       e-book.   Unlike  conversion,  it  does  not flatten CSS, rename files,
       change font sizes, adjust margins, etc. Every action performs only  the
       minimum set of changes needed for the desired effect.

       You  should  use  this  tool  as  the last step in your e-book creation
       process.

       Note that polishing only works on files in the AZW3 or EPUB formats.

       Whenever you pass arguments to ebook-polish that have spaces  in  them,
       enclose the arguments in quotation marks. For example: "/some path/with
       spaces"

[OPTIONS]
       --add-soft-hyphens, -H
              Add soft hyphens to all words in the book. This allows the  book
              to  be  rendered  better  when the text is justified, in readers
              that do not support hyphenation.

       --compress-images, -i
              Losslessly compress images in the book, to reduce the  filesize,
              without affecting image quality.

       --cover, -c
              Path  to  a  cover  image.  Changes  the  cover specified in the
              e-book. If no cover is present, or the  cover  is  not  properly
              identified, inserts a new cover.

       --embed-fonts, -e
              Embed  all fonts that are referenced in the document and are not
              already embedded. This will scan your computer  for  the  fonts,
              and  if they are found, they will be embedded into the document.
              Please ensure that you have the proper license for embedding the
              fonts used in this document.

       --help, -h
              show this help message and exit

       --jacket, -j
              Insert  a  "book jacket" page at the start of the book that con‐
              tains all the book metadata such as title,  tags,  authors,  se‐
              ries, comments, etc. Any previous book jacket will be replaced.

       --opf, -o
              Path  to  an  OPF file. The metadata in the book is updated from
              the OPF file.

       --remove-jacket
              Remove a previous inserted book jacket page.

       --remove-soft-hyphens
              Remove soft hyphens from all text in the book.

       --remove-unused-css, -u
              Remove all unused CSS rules from stylesheets and  <style>  tags.
              Some  books  created  from production templates can have a large
              number of extra CSS rules that don't match any  actual  content.
              These  extra rules can slow down readers that need to parse them
              all.

       --smarten-punctuation, -p
              Convert plain text dashes, ellipsis, quotes,  multiple  hyphens,
              etc.  into  their typographically correct equivalents. Note that
              the algorithm can sometimes generate  incorrect  results,  espe‐
              cially  when  single quotes at the start of contractions are in‐
              volved.

       --subset-fonts, -f
              Subsetting fonts means reducing an embedded font to contain only
              the characters used from that font in the book. This greatly re‐
              duces the size of the font files (halving the font file sizes is
              common). For example, if the book uses a specific font for head‐
              ers, then subsetting will reduce that font to contain  only  the
              characters  present in the actual headers in the book. Or if the
              book embeds the bold and italic versions of a font, but bold and
              italic  text  is relatively rare, or absent altogether, then the
              bold and italic fonts can either be reduced to only a few  char‐
              acters  or  completely  removed. The only downside to subsetting
              fonts is that if, at a later date you decide to add more text to
              your  books,  the  newly  added text might not be covered by the
              subset font.

       --upgrade-book, -U
              Upgrade the internal structures of the book,  if  possible.  For
              instance, upgrades EPUB 2 books to EPUB 3 books.

       --verbose
              Produce more verbose output, useful for debugging.

       --version
              show program's version number and exit

AUTHOR
       Kovid Goyal

COPYRIGHT
       Kovid Goyal

6.13.0                         February 17, 2023               EBOOK-POLISH(1)
