EBOOK-CONVERT(1)                    calibre                   EBOOK-CONVERT(1)

NAME
       ebook-convert - ebook-convert

          ebook-convert input_file output_file [options]

       Convert an e-book from one format to another.

       input_file  is  the  input  and output_file is the output. Both must be
       specified as the first two arguments to the command.

       The output e-book format is guessed from the  file  extension  of  out‐
       put_file.  output_file can also be of the special format .EXT where EXT
       is the output file extension. In this case, the name of the output file
       is  derived  from  the  name of the input file. Note that the filenames
       must not start with a hyphen. Finally, if output_file has no extension,
       then it is treated as a folder and an "open e-book" (OEB) consisting of
       HTML files is written to that folder. These files are  the  files  that
       would normally have been passed to the output plugin.

       After  specifying  the input and output file you can customize the con‐
       version by specifying various options. The available options depend  on
       the  input and output file types. To get help on them specify the input
       and output file and then use the -h option.

       For full documentation of the conversion system see E-book conversion

       Whenever you pass arguments to ebook-convert that have spaces in  them,
       enclose the arguments in quotation marks. For example: "/some path/with
       spaces"

       The options and default values for the options change depending on both
       the input and output formats, so you should always check with:

          ebook-convert myfile.input_format myfile.output_format -h

       Below  are  the  options that are common to all conversion, followed by
       the options specific to every input and output format.

       • Look and Feel

       • Heuristic Processing

       • Search and Replace

       • Structure Detection

       • Table of Contents

       • Metadata

       • Debug

       • AZW4 Input Options

       • CHM Input Options

       • Comic Input Options

       • DJVU Input Options

       • DOCX Input Options

       • EPUB Input Options

       • FB2 Input Options

       • HTLZ Input Options

       • HTML Input Options

       • LIT Input Options

       • LRF Input Options

       • MOBI Input Options

       • ODT Input Options

       • PDB Input Options

       • PDF Input Options

       • PML Input Options

       • RB Input Options

       • RTF Input Options

       • Recipe Input Options

       • SNB Input Options

       • TCR Input Options

       • TXT Input Options

       • AZW3 Output Options

       • DOCX Output Options

       • EPUB Output Options

       • FB2 Output Options

       • HTML Output Options

       • HTMLZ Output Options

       • LIT Output Options

       • LRF Output Options

       • MOBI Output Options

       • OEB Output Options

       • PDB Output Options

       • PDF Output Options

       • PML Output Options

       • RB Output Options

       • RTF Output Options

       • SNB Output Options

       • TCR Output Options

       • TXT Output Options

       • TXTZ Output Options

       --help, -h
              show this help message and exit

       --input-profile
              Specify the input profile. The input profile gives  the  conver‐
              sion  system information on how to interpret various information
              in the input document. For example resolution dependent  lengths
              (i.e.  lengths  in  pixels). Choices are: cybookg3, cybook_opus,
              default, hanlinv3, hanlinv5, illiad, irexdr1000, irexdr800, kin‐
              dle, msreader, mobipocket, nook, sony, sony300, sony900

       --list-recipes
              List  builtin  recipe  names.  You  can  create an e-book from a
              builtin recipe like  this:  ebook-convert  "Recipe  Name.recipe"
              output.epub

       --output-profile
              Specify the output profile. The output profile tells the conver‐
              sion system how to optimize the created document for the  speci‐
              fied  device  (such  as by resizing images for the device screen
              size). In some cases, an output profile can be used to  optimize
              the  output  for  a particular device, but this is rarely neces‐
              sary. Choices are:cybookg3, cybook_opus, default,  generic_eink,
              generic_eink_hd, generic_eink_large, hanlinv3, hanlinv5, illiad,
              ipad, ipad3, irexdr1000, irexdr800, jetbook5, kindle, kindle_dx,
              kindle_fire, kindle_oasis, kindle_pw, kindle_pw3, kindle_scribe,
              kindle_voyage, kobo,  msreader,  mobipocket,  nook,  nook_color,
              nook_hd_plus, pocketbook_inkpad3, pocketbook_lux, pocketbook_hd,
              pocketbook_900,  pocketbook_pro_912,  galaxy,   sony,   sony300,
              sony900, sony-landscape, sonyt3, tablet

       --version
              show program's version number and exit

LOOK AND FEEL
       Options to control the look and feel of the output

       --asciiize
              Transliterate Unicode characters to an ASCII representation. Use
              with care because this  will  replace  Unicode  characters  with
              ASCII.  For  instance  it will replace "Pelé" with "Pele". Also,
              note that in cases where there are multiple representations of a
              character  (characters  shared  by  Chinese and Japanese for in‐
              stance) the representation based on the current  calibre  inter‐
              face language will be used.

       --base-font-size
              The  base  font size in pts. All font sizes in the produced book
              will be rescaled based on this size. By choosing a  larger  size
              you  can  make the fonts in the output bigger and vice versa. By
              default, when the value is zero, the base font  size  is  chosen
              based on the output profile you chose.

       --change-justification
              Change text justification. A value of "left" converts all justi‐
              fied text in the source to left aligned (i.e. unjustified) text.
              A value of "justify" converts all unjustified text to justified.
              A value of "original" (the default) does not  change  justifica‐
              tion in the source file. Note that only some output formats sup‐
              port justification.

       --disable-font-rescaling
              Disable all rescaling of font sizes.

       --embed-all-fonts
              Embed every font that is referenced in the  input  document  but
              not  already  embedded.  This  will  search  your system for the
              fonts, and if found, they will be embedded. Embedding will  only
              work  if  the  format  you  are  converting to supports embedded
              fonts, such as EPUB, AZW3, DOCX or PDF. Please ensure  that  you
              have  the  proper  license  for embedding the fonts used in this
              document.

       --embed-font-family
              Embed the specified font family into the  book.  This  specifies
              the  "base" font used for the book. If the input document speci‐
              fies its own fonts, they may override this base  font.  You  can
              use the filter style information option to remove fonts from the
              input document. Note that font embedding only  works  with  some
              output formats, principally EPUB, AZW3 and DOCX.

       --expand-css
              By  default, calibre will use the shorthand form for various CSS
              properties such as margin, padding,  border,  etc.  This  option
              will  cause  it to use the full expanded form instead. Note that
              CSS is always expanded when generating EPUB files with the  out‐
              put  profile  set to one of the Nook profiles as the Nook cannot
              handle shorthand CSS.

       --extra-css
              Either the path to a CSS stylesheet or raw CSS. This CSS will be
              appended  to  the style rules from the source file, so it can be
              used to override those rules.

       --filter-css
              A comma separated list of CSS properties that  will  be  removed
              from all CSS style rules. This is useful if the presence of some
              style information prevents it from being overridden on your  de‐
              vice. For example: font-family,color,margin-left,margin-right

       --font-size-mapping
              Mapping  from  CSS  font  names to font sizes in pts. An example
              setting is 12,12,14,16,18,20,22,24. These are the  mappings  for
              the  sizes  xx-small  to xx-large, with the final size being for
              huge fonts. The font rescaling algorithm uses these sizes to in‐
              telligently rescale fonts. The default is to use a mapping based
              on the output profile you chose.

       --insert-blank-line
              Insert a blank line between paragraphs. Will  not  work  if  the
              source file does not use paragraphs (<p> or <div> tags).

       --insert-blank-line-size
              Set  the  height of the inserted blank lines (in em). The height
              of the lines between paragraphs will  be  twice  the  value  set
              here.

       --keep-ligatures
              Preserve  ligatures present in the input document. A ligature is
              a special rendering of a pair of characters like ff, fi,  fl  et
              cetera.  Most readers do not have support for ligatures in their
              default fonts, so they are unlikely to render correctly. By  de‐
              fault,  calibre will turn a ligature into the corresponding pair
              of normal characters. This option will preserve them instead.

       --line-height
              The line height in pts.  Controls  spacing  between  consecutive
              lines of text. Only applies to elements that do not define their
              own line height. In most cases, the minimum line  height  option
              is  more  useful. By default no line height manipulation is per‐
              formed.

       --linearize-tables
              Some badly designed documents use tables to control  the  layout
              of  text  on the page. When converted these documents often have
              text that runs off the page and  other  artifacts.  This  option
              will  extract  the  content  from the tables and present it in a
              linear fashion.

       --margin-bottom
              Set the bottom margin in pts. Default is 5.0.  Setting  this  to
              less  than  zero will cause no margin to be set (the margin set‐
              ting in the original document will  be  preserved).  Note:  Page
              oriented formats such as PDF and DOCX have their own margin set‐
              tings that take precedence.

       --margin-left
              Set the left margin in pts. Default is 5.0. Setting this to less
              than  zero will cause no margin to be set (the margin setting in
              the original document will be preserved).  Note:  Page  oriented
              formats such as PDF and DOCX have their own margin settings that
              take precedence.

       --margin-right
              Set the right margin in pts. Default is  5.0.  Setting  this  to
              less  than  zero will cause no margin to be set (the margin set‐
              ting in the original document will  be  preserved).  Note:  Page
              oriented formats such as PDF and DOCX have their own margin set‐
              tings that take precedence.

       --margin-top
              Set the top margin in pts. Default is 5.0. Setting this to  less
              than  zero will cause no margin to be set (the margin setting in
              the original document will be preserved).  Note:  Page  oriented
              formats such as PDF and DOCX have their own margin settings that
              take precedence.

       --minimum-line-height
              The minimum line height, as a percentage of the element's calcu‐
              lated  font  size.  calibre will ensure that every element has a
              line height of at least this setting, irrespective of  what  the
              input  document  specifies.  Set  to zero to disable. Default is
              120%. Use this setting in preference to the direct  line  height
              specification,  unless you know what you are doing. For example,
              you can achieve "double spaced" text by setting this to 240.

       --remove-paragraph-spacing
              Remove spacing between paragraphs. Also sets an indent on  para‐
              graphs  of  1.5em.  Spacing  removal will not work if the source
              file does not use paragraphs (<p> or <div> tags).

       --remove-paragraph-spacing-indent-size
              When calibre removes blank lines between paragraphs, it automat‐
              ically sets a paragraph indent, to ensure that paragraphs can be
              easily distinguished. This option controls the width of that in‐
              dent  (in  em).  If you set this value negative, then the indent
              specified in the input document is used, that is,  calibre  does
              not change the indentation.

       --smarten-punctuation
              Convert  plain  quotes, dashes and ellipsis to their typographi‐
              cally     correct     equivalents.     For     details,      see
              https://daringfireball.net/projects/smartypants.

       --subset-embedded-fonts
              Subset  all  embedded  fonts.  Every embedded font is reduced to
              contain only the glyphs used in this  document.  This  decreases
              the  size  of the font files. Useful if you are embedding a par‐
              ticularly large font with lots of unused glyphs.

       --transform-css-rules
              Path to a file containing rules to transform the CSS  styles  in
              this  book.  The easiest way to create such a file is to use the
              wizard for creating rules in the calibre GUI. Access it  in  the
              "Look  &  feel->Transform styles" section of the conversion dia‐
              log. Once you create the rules, you can use the "Export"  button
              to save them to a file.

       --transform-html-rules
              Path  to  a  file containing rules to transform the HTML in this
              book. The easiest way to create such a file is to use the wizard
              for  creating rules in the calibre GUI. Access it in the "Look &
              feel->Transform HTML" section of the conversion dialog. Once you
              create  the  rules, you can use the "Export" button to save them
              to a file.

       --unsmarten-punctuation
              Convert fancy quotes, dashes and ellipsis to their plain equiva‐
              lents.

HEURISTIC PROCESSING
       Modify  the document text and structure using common patterns. Disabled
       by default. Use --enable-heuristics to enable.  Individual actions  can
       be disabled with the --disable-* options.

       --disable-dehyphenate
              Analyze  hyphenated words throughout the document.  The document
              itself is used as a  dictionary  to  determine  whether  hyphens
              should be retained or removed.

       --disable-delete-blank-paragraphs
              Remove  empty  paragraphs  from the document when they exist be‐
              tween every other paragraph

       --disable-fix-indents
              Turn indentation created from multiple non-breaking space  enti‐
              ties into CSS indents.

       --disable-format-scene-breaks
              Left  aligned  scene  break  markers are center aligned. Replace
              soft scene breaks that use multiple blank lines with  horizontal
              rules.

       --disable-italicize-common-cases
              Look for common words and patterns that denote italics and ital‐
              icize them.

       --disable-markup-chapter-headings
              Detect unformatted chapter headings  and  sub  headings.  Change
              them to h2 and h3 tags.  This setting will not create a TOC, but
              can be used in conjunction with structure  detection  to  create
              one.

       --disable-renumber-headings
              Looks  for occurrences of sequential <h1> or <h2> tags. The tags
              are renumbered to prevent splitting in  the  middle  of  chapter
              headings.

       --disable-unwrap-lines
              Unwrap lines using punctuation and other formatting clues.

       --enable-heuristics
              Enable  heuristic  processing.  This  option must be set for any
              heuristic processing to take place.

       --html-unwrap-factor
              Scale used to determine the length at which a line should be un‐
              wrapped. Valid values are a decimal between 0 and 1. The default
              is 0.4, just below the median line length.  If only a few  lines
              in the document require unwrapping this value should be reduced

       --replace-scene-breaks
              Replace  scene  breaks  with the specified text. By default, the
              text from the input document is used.

SEARCH AND REPLACE
       Modify the document text and structure using user defined patterns.

       --search-replace
              Path to a file containing search  and  replace  regular  expres‐
              sions.  The  file  must contain alternating lines of regular ex‐
              pression followed by replacement pattern (which can be an  empty
              line). The regular expression must be in the Python regex syntax
              and the file must be UTF-8 encoded.

       --sr1-replace
              Replacement to replace the text found with sr1-search.

       --sr1-search
              Search pattern (regular expression) to be replaced with  sr1-re‐
              place.

       --sr2-replace
              Replacement to replace the text found with sr2-search.

       --sr2-search
              Search  pattern (regular expression) to be replaced with sr2-re‐
              place.

       --sr3-replace
              Replacement to replace the text found with sr3-search.

       --sr3-search
              Search pattern (regular expression) to be replaced with  sr3-re‐
              place.

STRUCTURE DETECTION
       Control auto-detection of document structure.

       --chapter
              An  XPath expression to detect chapter titles. The default is to
              consider <h1> or <h2> tags that  contain  the  words  "chapter",
              "book",  "section",  "prologue", "epilogue" or "part" as chapter
              titles as well as any tags that have  class="chapter".  The  ex‐
              pression  used  must  evaluate to a list of elements. To disable
              chapter detection, use the expression "/". See the  XPath  Tuto‐
              rial  in  the calibre User Manual for further help on using this
              feature.

       --chapter-mark
              Specify how to mark detected chapters. A  value  of  "pagebreak"
              will  insert page breaks before chapters. A value of "rule" will
              insert a line before chapters. A value of  "none"  will  disable
              chapter  marking and a value of "both" will use both page breaks
              and lines to mark chapters.

       --disable-remove-fake-margins
              Some documents specify page margins by  specifying  a  left  and
              right  margin  on each individual paragraph. calibre will try to
              detect and remove these margins. Sometimes, this can  cause  the
              removal  of  margins  that should not have been removed. In this
              case you can disable the removal.

       --insert-metadata
              Insert the book metadata at the start of the book. This is  use‐
              ful  if your e-book reader does not support displaying/searching
              metadata directly.

       --page-breaks-before
              An XPath expression. Page breaks are inserted before the  speci‐
              fied elements. To disable use the expression: /

       --prefer-metadata-cover
              Use the cover detected from the source file in preference to the
              specified cover.

       --remove-first-image
              Remove the first image from the input e-book. Useful if the  in‐
              put  document  has  a  cover  image  that is not identified as a
              cover. In this case, if you set a cover in calibre,  the  output
              document will end up with two cover images if you do not specify
              this option.

       --start-reading-at
              An XPath expression to detect the location in  the  document  at
              which  to  start  reading.  Some  e-book  reading programs (most
              prominently the Kindle) use this location  as  the  position  at
              which  to  open  the book. See the XPath tutorial in the calibre
              User Manual for further help using this feature.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
       Control the automatic generation of a Table of Contents. By default, if
       the  source file has a Table of Contents, it will be used in preference
       to the automatically generated one.

       --duplicate-links-in-toc
              When creating a TOC from links in the input document, allow  du‐
              plicate  entries,  i.e.  allow more than one entry with the same
              text, provided that they point to a different location.

       --level1-toc
              XPath expression that specifies all tags that should be added to
              the  Table  of  Contents  at level one. If this is specified, it
              takes precedence over other forms  of  auto-detection.  See  the
              XPath Tutorial in the calibre User Manual for examples.

       --level2-toc
              XPath expression that specifies all tags that should be added to
              the Table of Contents at level two. Each entry  is  added  under
              the previous level one entry. See the XPath Tutorial in the cal‐
              ibre User Manual for examples.

       --level3-toc
              XPath expression that specifies all tags that should be added to
              the  Table of Contents at level three. Each entry is added under
              the previous level two entry. See the XPath Tutorial in the cal‐
              ibre User Manual for examples.

       --max-toc-links
              Maximum number of links to insert into the TOC. Set to 0 to dis‐
              able. Default is: 50. Links are only added to the  TOC  if  less
              than the threshold number of chapters were detected.

       --no-chapters-in-toc
              Don't add auto-detected chapters to the Table of Contents.

       --toc-filter
              Remove entries from the Table of Contents whose titles match the
              specified regular expression. Matching  entries  and  all  their
              children are removed.

       --toc-threshold
              If  fewer  than  this number of chapters is detected, then links
              are added to the Table of Contents. Default: 6

       --use-auto-toc
              Normally, if the source file already has a Table of Contents, it
              is  used  in preference to the auto-generated one. With this op‐
              tion, the auto-generated one is always used.

METADATA
       Options to set metadata in the output

       --author-sort
              String to be used when sorting by author.

       --authors
              Set the authors. Multiple authors should be separated by  amper‐
              sands.

       --book-producer
              Set the book producer.

       --comments
              Set the e-book description.

       --cover
              Set the cover to the specified file or URL

       --isbn Set the ISBN of the book.

       --language
              Set the language.

       --pubdate
              Set  the  publication date (assumed to be in the local timezone,
              unless the timezone is explicitly specified)

       --publisher
              Set the e-book publisher.

       --rating
              Set the rating. Should be a number between 1 and 5.

       --read-metadata-from-opf, --from-opf, -m
              Read metadata from the specified OPF file.  Metadata  read  from
              this file will override any metadata in the source file.

       --series
              Set the series this e-book belongs to.

       --series-index
              Set the index of the book in this series.

       --tags Set the tags for the book. Should be a comma separated list.

       --timestamp
              Set the book timestamp (no longer used anywhere)

       --title
              Set the title.

       --title-sort
              The version of the title to be used for sorting.

DEBUG
       Options to help with debugging the conversion

       --debug-pipeline, -d
              Save the output from different stages of the conversion pipeline
              to the specified folder. Useful if you are unsure at which stage
              of the conversion process a bug is occurring.

       --verbose, -v
              Level  of  verbosity.  Specify  multiple  times for greater ver‐
              bosity. Specifying it twice will result in full verbosity,  once
              medium verbosity and zero times least verbosity.

AZW4 INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

CHM INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

COMIC INPUT OPTIONS
       --colors
              Reduce  the  number of colors used in the image. This works only
              if you choose the PNG output format. It is useful to reduce file
              sizes.  Set to zero to turn off. Maximum value is 256. It is off
              by default.

       --comic-image-size
              Specify the image size as width x height  pixels,  for  example:
              123x321.  Normally,  an  image  size is automatically calculated
              from the output profile, this option overrides it.

       --despeckle
              Enable Despeckle. Reduces speckle noise.  May  greatly  increase
              processing time.

       --disable-trim
              Disable trimming of comic pages. For some comics, trimming might
              remove content as well as borders.

       --dont-add-comic-pages-to-toc
              When converting a CBC do not add links to each page to the  TOC.
              Note this only applies if the TOC has more than one section

       --dont-grayscale
              Do not convert the image to grayscale (black and white)

       --dont-normalize
              Disable  normalize  (improve contrast) color range for pictures.
              Default: False

       --dont-sharpen
              Disable sharpening.

       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

       --keep-aspect-ratio
              Maintain picture aspect ratio. Default is to fill the screen.

       --landscape
              Don't split landscape images into two portrait images

       --no-process
              Apply no processing to the image

       --no-sort
              Don't  sort the files found in the comic alphabetically by name.
              Instead use the order they were added to the comic.

       --output-format
              The format that images in the created e-book are  converted  to.
              You  can  experiment  to see which format gives you optimal size
              and look on your device.

       --right2left
              Used for right-to-left publications like manga. Causes landscape
              pages to be split into portrait pages from right to left.

       --wide Keep  aspect  ratio and scale image using screen height as image
              width for viewing in landscape mode.

DJVU INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

DOCX INPUT OPTIONS
       --docx-inline-subsup
              Render  superscripts  and  subscripts so that they do not affect
              the line height

       --docx-no-cover
              Normally, if a large image is present at the start of the  docu‐
              ment  that looks like a cover, it will be removed from the docu‐
              ment and used as the cover for created e-book. This option turns
              off that behavior.

       --docx-no-pagebreaks-between-notes
              Do not insert a page break after every endnote.

       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

EPUB INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

FB2 INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

       --no-inline-fb2-toc
              Do not insert a Table of Contents at the beginning of the book

HTLZ INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

HTML INPUT OPTIONS
       --breadth-first
              Traverse  links  in HTML files breadth first. Normally, they are
              traversed depth first.

       --dont-package
              Normally this input plugin re-arranges all the input files  into
              a  standard  folder  hierarchy. Only use this option if you know
              what you are doing as it can result in various  nasty  side  ef‐
              fects in the rest of the conversion pipeline.

       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

       --max-levels
              Maximum levels of recursion when following links in HTML  files.
              Must  be  non-negative. 0 implies that no linktroff: <standard input>:1095: warning [p 16, 1.0i]: cannot adjust line
s in the root HTML
              file are followed. Default is 5.

LIT INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

LRF INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

MOBI INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

ODT INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

PDB INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

PDF INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

       --new-pdf-engine
              Use the new PDF conversion engine. Currently not operational.

       --no-images
              Do not extract images from the document

       --unwrap-factor
              Scale used to determine the length at which a line should be un‐
              wrapped. Valid values are a decimal between 0 and 1. The default
              is 0.45, just below the median line length.

PML INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

RB INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

RTF INPUT OPTIONS
       --ignore-wmf
              Ignore WMF images instead of replacing them with  a  placeholder
              image.

       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

RECIPE INPUT OPTIONS
       --dont-download-recipe
              Do not download latest version of builtin recipes from the cali‐
              bre server

       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

       --lrf  Optimize fetching for subsequent conversion to LRF.

       --password
              Password for sites that require a login to access content.

       --test Useful for recipe development. Forces max_articles_per_feed to 2
              and  downloads  at  most  2  feeds. You can change the number of
              feeds and articles by supplying optional arguments. For example:
              --test  3 1 will download at most 3 feeds and only 1 article per
              feed.

       --username
              Username for sites that require a login to access content.

SNB INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the  input  document.  If  set
              this  option will override any encoding declared by the document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

TCR INPUT OPTIONS
       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

TXT INPUT OPTIONS
       --formatting-type
              Formatting used within the document. * auto:  Automatically  de‐
              cide  which formatting processor to use * plain: No formatting *
              heuristic: Use heuristics to determine chapter  headings,  ital‐
              ics, etc. * textile: Use the TexTile markup language * markdown:
              Use the Markdown markup language To learn  more  about  markdown
              see https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/

       --input-encoding
              Specify  the  character  encoding  of the input document. If set
              this option will override any encoding declared by the  document
              itself. Particularly useful for documents that do not declare an
              encoding or that have erroneous encoding declarations.

       --markdown-extensions
              Enable extensions to Markdown syntax. Extensions are  formatting
              that is not part of the standard Markdown format. The extensions
              enabled by default: footnotes, tables, toc. To learn more  about
              Markdown                     extensions,                     see
              https://python-markdown.github.io/extensions/ This should  be  a
              comma  separated list of extensions to enable: * abbr: Abbrevia‐
              tions * admonition: Support admonitions * attr_list: Add  attri‐
              bute  to  HTML tags * codehilite: Add code highlighting via Pyg‐
              ments * def_list: Definition lists * extra: Enables various com‐
              mon  extensions  *  fenced_code: Alternative code block syntax *
              footnotes: Footnotes *  legacy_attrs:  Use  legacy  element  at‐
              tributes  *  legacy_em:  Use legacy underscore handling for con‐
              nected words * meta: Metadata in the  document  *  nl2br:  Treat
              newlines  as  hard breaks * sane_lists: Do not allow mixing list
              types * smarty: Use markdown's internal smartypants parser * ta‐
              bles:  Support tables * toc: Generate a table of contents * wik‐
              ilinks: Wiki style links

       --paragraph-type
              Paragraph structure to assume. The value of "off" is useful  for
              formatted  documents such as Markdown or Textile. Choices are: *
              auto: Try to auto detect paragraph type * block: Treat  a  blank
              line as a paragraph break * single: Assume every line is a para‐
              graph * print:  Assume every line starting with 2+ spaces  or  a
              tab  starts a paragraph * unformatted: Most lines have hard line
              breaks, few/no blank lines or indents * off:  Don't  modify  the
              paragraph structure

       --preserve-spaces
              Normally  extra  spaces  are condensed into a single space. With
              this option all spaces will be displayed.

       --txt-in-remove-indents
              Normally extra space at the beginning of lines is retained. With
              this option they will be removed.

AZW3 OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --dont-compress
              Disable compression of the file contents.

       --extract-to
              Extract the contents of the generated AZW3 file to the specified
              folder. The contents of the folder  are  first  deleted,  so  be
              careful.

       --mobi-toc-at-start
              When  adding  the  Table  of Contents to the book, add it at the
              start of the book instead of the end. Not recommended.

       --no-inline-toc
              Don't add Table of Contents to the book. Useful if the book  has
              its own table of contents.

       --prefer-author-sort
              When present, use author sort field as author.

       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

       --share-not-sync
              Enable sharing of book content via Facebook etc.  on the Kindle.
              WARNING: Using this feature means that  the book will  not  auto
              sync  its  last  read position  on multiple devices. Complain to
              Amazon.

       --toc-title
              Title for any generated in-line table of contents.

DOCX OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --docx-custom-page-size
              Custom size of the document. Use the form width  x  height,  for
              example:  123x321 to specify the width and height (in pts). This
              overrides any specified page-size.

       --docx-no-cover
              Do not insert the book cover as an image at  the  start  of  the
              document.  If  you  use this option, the book cover will be dis‐
              carded.

       --docx-no-toc
              Do not insert the table of contents as a page at  the  start  of
              the document.

       --docx-page-margin-bottom
              The  size  of  the  bottom page margin, in pts. Default is 72pt.
              Overrides the common bottom page margin setting, unless  set  to
              zero.

       --docx-page-margin-left
              The size of the left page margin, in pts. Default is 72pt. Over‐
              rides the common left page margin setting.

       --docx-page-margin-right
              The size of the right page margin,  in  pts.  Default  is  72pt.
              Overrides  the  common  right page margin setting, unless set to
              zero.

       --docx-page-margin-top
              The size of the top page margin, in pts. Default is 72pt.  Over‐
              rides the common top page margin setting, unless set to zero.

       --docx-page-size
              The  size  of  the  page.  Default is letter. Choices are ['a0',
              'a1', 'a2', 'a3', 'a4', 'a5',  'a6',  'b0',  'b1',  'b2',  'b3',
              'b4', 'b5', 'b6', 'legal', 'letter']

       --extract-to
              Extract the contents of the generated DOCX file to the specified
              folder. The contents of the folder  are  first  deleted,  so  be
              careful.

       --preserve-cover-aspect-ratio
              Preserve the aspect ratio of the cover image instead of stretch‐
              ing it out to cover the entire page.

       --pretty-print
              If specified, the output plugin will try to create  output  that
              is  as  human  readable as possible. May not have any effect for
              some output plugins.

EPUB OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --dont-split-on-page-breaks
              Turn off splitting at page breaks. Normally, input files are au‐
              tomatically split at every page break into two files. This gives
              an output e-book that can be parsed faster  and  with  less  re‐
              sources. However, splitting is slow and if your source file con‐
              tains a very large number of page breaks, you  should  turn  off
              splitting on page breaks.

       --epub-flatten
              This  option  is  needed only if you intend to use the EPUB with
              FBReaderJ. It will flatten the  file  system  inside  the  EPUB,
              putting all files into the top level.

       --epub-inline-toc
              Insert  an  inline Table of Contents that will appear as part of
              the main book content.

       --epub-toc-at-end
              Put the inserted inline Table of Contents at the end of the book
              instead of the start.

       --epub-version
              The  version  of  the  EPUB file to generate. EPUB 2 is the most
              widely compatible, only use EPUB 3 if you know you actually need
              it.

       --extract-to
              Extract the contents of the generated EPUB file to the specified
              folder. The contents of the folder  are  first  deleted,  so  be
              careful.

       --flow-size
              Split all HTML files larger than this size (in KB). This is nec‐
              essary as most EPUB readers cannot handle large file sizes.  The
              default  of  260KB  is  the size required for Adobe Digital Edi‐
              tions. Set to 0 to disable size based splitting.

       --no-default-epub-cover
              Normally, if the input file has no cover and you  don't  specify
              one,  a default cover is generated with the title, authors, etc.
              This option disables the generation of this cover.

       --no-svg-cover
              Do not use SVG for the book cover. Use this option if your  EPUB
              is  going to be used on a device that does not support SVG, like
              the iPhone or the JetBook Lite. Without this  option,  such  de‐
              vices will display the cover as a blank page.

       --preserve-cover-aspect-ratio
              When  using  an  SVG  cover, this option will cause the cover to
              scale to cover the available screen area, but still preserve its
              aspect ratio (ratio of width to height). That means there may be
              white borders at the sides or top and bottom of the  image,  but
              the image will never be distorted. Without this option the image
              may be slightly distorted, but there will be no borders.

       --pretty-print
              If specified, the output plugin will try to create  output  that
              is  as  human  readable as possible. May not have any effect for
              some output plugins.

       --toc-title
              Title for any generated in-line table of contents.

FB2 OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --fb2-genre
              Genre for the book.  Choices:  sf_history,  sf_action,  sf_epic,
              sf_heroic,   sf_detective,  sf_cyberpunk,  sf_space,  sf_social,
              sf_horror, sf_humor, sf_fantasy,  sf,  det_classic,  det_police,
              det_action,  det_irony,  det_history,  det_espionage, det_crime,
              det_political,  det_maniac,   det_hard,   thriller,   detective,
              prose_classic, prose_history, prose_contemporary, prose_counter,
              prose_rus_classic,     prose_su_classics,     love_contemporary,
              love_history,    love_detective,    love_short,    love_erotica,
              adv_western,  adv_history,  adv_indian,  adv_maritime,  adv_geo,
              adv_animal,  adventure,  child_tale,  child_verse,  child_prose,
              child_sf, child_det, child_adv, child_education,  children,  po‐
              etry,  dramaturgy,  antique_ant,  antique_european, antique_rus‐
              sian,   antique_east,   antique_myths,   antique,   sci_history,
              sci_psychology,   sci_culture,   sci_religion,   sci_philosophy,
              sci_politics,    sci_business,    sci_juris,     sci_linguistic,
              sci_medicine,   sci_phys,   sci_math,   sci_chem,   sci_biology,
              sci_tech,  science,   comp_www,   comp_programming,   comp_hard,
              comp_soft,  comp_db, comp_osnet, computers, ref_encyc, ref_dict,
              ref_ref, ref_guide, reference,  nonf_biography,  nonf_publicism,
              nonf_criticism,  design, nonfiction, religion_rel, religion_eso‐
              terics, religion_self,  religion,  humor_anecdote,  humor_prose,
              humor_verse,   humor,   home_cooking,   home_pets,  home_crafts,
              home_entertain, home_health, home_garden, home_diy,  home_sport,
              home_sex,                       home                        See:
              http://www.fictionbook.org/index.php/Eng:FictionBook_2.1_genres
              for a complete list with descriptions.

       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

       --sectionize
              Specify  how  sections are created:  * nothing: A single section
              * files: Section per file  * toc: Section per entry in  the  ToC
              If  ToC based generation fails, adjust the "Structure detection"
              and/or "Table of Contents"  settings  (turn  on  "Force  use  of
              auto-generated Table of Contents").

HTML OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --extract-to
              Extract  the contents of the generated ZIP file to the specified
              folder. WARNING: The contents of the folder will be deleted.

       --pretty-print
              If specified, the output plugin will try to create  output  that
              is  as  human  readable as possible. May not have any effect for
              some output plugins.

       --template-css
              CSS file used for the output instead of the default file

       --template-html
              Template used for the generation of the  HTML  contents  of  the
              book instead of the default file

       --template-html-index
              Template  used  for generation of the HTML index file instead of
              the default file

HTMLZ OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --htmlz-class-style
              How to handle the CSS when using css-type = 'class'. Default  is
              external.  external:  Use  an  external  CSS  file inline: Use a
              <style> tag in the HTML file

       --htmlz-css-type
              Specify the handling of CSS. Default is class.  class:  Use  CSS
              classes inline: Use the style attribute tag: Use HTML tags wher‐
              ever possible

       --htmlz-title-filename
              If set this option causes the file name of the HTML file  inside
              the HTMLZ archive to be based on the book title.

       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

LIT OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

LRF OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --enable-autorotation
              Enable  auto-rotation  of  images that are wider than the screen
              width.

       --header
              Add a header to all the pages with title and author.

       --header-format
              Set the format of the header. %a is replaced by the  author  and
              %t by the title. Default is %t by %a

       --header-separation
              Add extra spacing below the header. Default is 0 pt.

       --minimum-indent
              Minimum  paragraph  indent  (the  indent  of the first line of a
              paragraph) in pts. Default: 0

       --mono-family
              The monospace family of fonts to embed

       --pretty-print
              If specified, the output plugin will try to create  output  that
              is  as  human  readable as possible. May not have any effect for
              some output plugins.

       --render-tables-as-images
              This option has no effect

       --sans-family
              The sans-serif family of fonts to embed

       --serif-family
              The serif family of fonts to embed

       --text-size-multiplier-for-rendered-tables
              Multiply the size of text in rendered tables by this factor. De‐
              fault is 1.0

       --wordspace
              Set the space between words in pts. Default is 2.5

MOBI OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --dont-compress
              Disable compression of the file contents.

       --extract-to
              Extract the contents of the generated MOBI file to the specified
              folder. The contents of the folder  are  first  deleted,  so  be
              careful.

       --mobi-file-type
              By  default  calibre  generates  MOBI files that contain the old
              MOBI 6 format. This format is compatible with all devices.  How‐
              ever, by changing this setting, you can tell calibre to generate
              MOBI files that contain both MOBI 6 and the new KF8  format,  or
              only  the new KF8 format. KF8 has more features than MOBI 6, but
              only works with newer Kindles. Allowed values: old, both, new

       --mobi-ignore-margins
              Ignore margins in the input document. If False,  then  the  MOBI
              output plugin will try to convert margins specified in the input
              document, otherwise it will ignore them.

       --mobi-keep-original-images
              By default calibre converts all images to  JPEG  format  in  the
              output  MOBI  file.  This  is  for maximum compatibility as some
              older MOBI viewers have problems with other image formats.  This
              option  tells  calibre  not  to do this. Useful if your document
              contains lots of GIF/PNG images that become very large when con‐
              verted to JPEG.

       --mobi-toc-at-start
              When  adding  the  Table  of Contents to the book, add it at the
              start of the book instead of the end. Not recommended.

       --no-inline-toc
              Don't add Table of Contents to the book. Useful if the book  has
              its own table of contents.

       --personal-doc
              Tag  for MOBI files to be marked as personal documents. This op‐
              tion has no effect on the conversion. It is used only when send‐
              ing MOBI files to a device. If the file being sent has the spec‐
              ified tag, it will be marked as a personal document when sent to
              the Kindle.

       --prefer-author-sort
              When present, use author sort field as author.

       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

       --share-not-sync
              Enable sharing of book content via Facebook etc.  on the Kindle.
              WARNING: Using this feature means that  the book will  not  auto
              sync  its  last  read position  on multiple devices. Complain to
              Amazon.

       --toc-title
              Title for any generated in-line table of contents.

OEB OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --pretty-print
              If specified, the output plugin will try to create  output  that
              is  as  human  readable as possible. May not have any effect for
              some output plugins.

PDB OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --format, -f
              Format to use inside the PDB  container.  Choices  are:  ['doc',
              'ereader', 'ztxt']

       --inline-toc
              Add Table of Contents to beginning of the book.

       --pdb-output-encoding
              Specify  the  character encoding of the output document. The de‐
              fault is cp1252. Note: This option is not honored  by  all  for‐
              mats.

       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

PDF OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --custom-size
              Custom  size  of  the document. Use the form width x height e.g.
              123x321 to specify the width  and  height.  This  overrides  any
              specified paper-size.

       --paper-size
              The  size  of the paper. This size will be overridden when a non
              default output profile is used. Default is letter.  Choices  are
              a0,  a1,  a2, a3, a4, a5, a6, b0, b1, b2, b3, b4, b5, b6, legal,
              letter

       --pdf-add-toc
              Add a Table of Contents at the end of the PDF  that  lists  page
              numbers. Useful if you want to print out the PDF. If this PDF is
              intended for electronic use, use the PDF Outline instead.

       --pdf-default-font-size
              The default font size (in pixels)

       --pdf-footer-template
              An HTML template used to generate footers  on  every  page.  The
              strings  _PAGENUM_,  _TITLE_, _AUTHOR_ and _SECTION_ will be re‐
              placed by their current values.

       --pdf-header-template
              An HTML template used to generate headers  on  every  page.  The
              strings  _PAGENUM_,  _TITLE_, _AUTHOR_ and _SECTION_ will be re‐
              placed by their current values.

       --pdf-hyphenate
              Break long words at the end of lines. This can give the text  at
              the  right margin a more even appearance. Note that depending on
              the fonts used this option can break the copying  of  text  from
              the PDF file.

       --pdf-mark-links
              Surround all links with a red box, useful for debugging.

       --pdf-mono-family
              The  font  family used to render monospace fonts. Will work only
              if the font is available system-wide.

       --pdf-mono-font-size
              The default font size for monospaced text (in pixels)

       --pdf-odd-even-offset
              Shift the text horizontally by the specified offset (in pts). On
              odd  numbered pages, it is shifted to the right and on even num‐
              bered pages to the left. Use negative numbers for  the  opposite
              effect.  Note  that  this  setting is ignored on pages where the
              margins are smaller than the specified offset. Shifting is  done
              by  setting the PDF CropBox, not all software respects the Crop‐
              Box.

       --pdf-page-margin-bottom
              The size of the bottom page margin, in  pts.  Default  is  72pt.
              Overrides  the  common bottom page margin setting, unless set to
              zero.

       --pdf-page-margin-left
              The size of the left page margin, in pts. Default is 72pt. Over‐
              rides the common left page margin setting.

       --pdf-page-margin-right
              The  size  of  the  right  page margin, in pts. Default is 72pt.
              Overrides the common right page margin setting,  unless  set  to
              zero.

       --pdf-page-margin-top
              The  size of the top page margin, in pts. Default is 72pt. Over‐
              rides the common top page margin setting, unless set to zero.

       --pdf-page-number-map
              Adjust page numbers, as needed. Syntax is a  JavaScript  expres‐
              sion  for  the page number. For example, "if (n < 3) 0; else n -
              3;", where n is current page number.

       --pdf-page-numbers
              Add page numbers to the bottom of every page  in  the  generated
              PDF  file. If you specify a footer template, it will take prece‐
              dence over this option.

       --pdf-sans-family
              The font family used to render sans-serif fonts. Will work  only
              if the font is available system-wide.

       --pdf-serif-family
              The  font  family  used to render serif fonts. Will work only if
              the font is available system-wide.

       --pdf-standard-font
              The font family used to render monospace fonts

       --pdf-use-document-margins
              Use the page margins specified in the input document  via  @page
              CSS  rules. This will cause the margins specified in the conver‐
              sion settings to be ignored. If the document  does  not  specify
              page  margins,  the  conversion settings will be used as a fall‐
              back.

       --preserve-cover-aspect-ratio
              Preserve the aspect ratio of the cover, instead of stretching it
              to fill the full first page of the generated PDF.

       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

       --toc-title
              Title for generated table of contents.

       --uncompressed-pdf
              Generate an uncompressed PDF, useful for debugging.

       --unit, -u
              The unit of measure for page sizes. Default is inch. Choices are
              millimeter, centimeter, point, inch, pica, didot, cicero,  devi‐
              cepixel Note: This does not override the unit for margins!

       --use-profile-size
              Instead  of using the paper size specified in the PDF Output op‐
              tions, use a paper size corresponding to the current output pro‐
              file. Useful if you want to generate a PDF for viewing on a spe‐
              cific device.

PML OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --full-image-depth
              Do not reduce the size or bit depth of images. Images have their
              size  and  depth  reduced by default to accommodate applications
              that can not convert images on their own such as Dropbook.

       --inline-toc
              Add Table of Contents to beginning of the book.

       --pml-output-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the output document.  The  de‐
              fault is cp1252.

       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

RB OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --inline-toc
              Add Table of Contents to beginning of the book.

       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

RTF OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

SNB OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

       --snb-dont-indent-first-line
              Specify  whether or not to insert two space characters to indent
              the first line of each paragraph.

       --snb-full-screen
              Resize all the images for full screen mode.

       --snb-hide-chapter-name
              Specify whether or not to hide the chapter title for each  chap‐
              ter. Useful for image-only output (eg. comics).

       --snb-insert-empty-line
              Specify whether or not to insert an empty line between two para‐
              graphs.

       --snb-max-line-length
              The maximum number of characters per line. This  splits  on  the
              first space before the specified value. If no space is found the
              line will be broken at the space after and will exceed the spec‐
              ified value. Also, there is a minimum of 25 characters. Use 0 to
              disable line splitting.

       --snb-output-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the output document.  The  de‐
              fault is utf-8.

TCR OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

       --tcr-output-encoding
              Specify  the  character encoding of the output document. The de‐
              fault is utf-8.

TXT OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --force-max-line-length
              Force splitting on the max-line-length value when  no  space  is
              present. Also allows max-line-length to be below the minimum

       --inline-toc
              Add Table of Contents to beginning of the book.

       --keep-color
              Do  not  remove font color from output. This is only useful when
              TXT output formatting is set to textile.  Textile  is  the  only
              formatting  that  supports setting font color. If this option is
              not specified font color will not be  set  and  default  to  the
              color displayed by the reader (generally this is black).

       --keep-image-references
              Do not remove image references within the document. This is only
              useful when paired with a TXT output formatting option  that  is
              not  none  because links are always removed with plain text out‐
              put.

       --keep-links
              Do not remove links within the document.  This  is  only  useful
              when paired with a TXT output formatting option that is not none
              because links are always removed with plain text output.

       --max-line-length
              The maximum number of characters per line. This  splits  on  the
              first space before the specified value. If no space is found the
              line will be broken at the space after and will exceed the spec‐
              ified value. Also, there is a minimum of 25 characters. Use 0 to
              disable line splitting.

       --newline, -n
              Type of  newline  to  use.  Options  are  ['old_mac',  'system',
              'unix',  'windows']. Default is 'system'. Use 'old_mac' for com‐
              patibility with Mac OS 9 and  earlier.  For  macOS  use  'unix'.
              'system' will default to the newline type used by this OS.

       --pretty-print
              If  specified,  the output plugin will try to create output that
              is as human readable as possible. May not have  any  effect  for
              some output plugins.

       --txt-output-encoding
              Specify  the  character encoding of the output document. The de‐
              fault is utf-8.

       --txt-output-formatting
              Formatting used within the document. * plain: Plain text * mark‐
              down: Markdown formatted text * textile: TexTile formatted text

TXTZ OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --force-max-line-length
              Force  splitting  on  the max-line-length value when no space is
              present. Also allows max-line-length to be below the minimum

       --inline-toc
              Add Table of Contents to beginning of the book.

       --keep-color
              Do not remove font color from output. This is only  useful  when
              TXT  output  formatting  is  set to textile. Textile is the only
              formatting that supports setting font color. If this  option  is
              not  specified  font  color  will  not be set and default to the
              color displayed by the reader (generally this is black).

       --keep-image-references
              Do not remove image references within the document. This is only
              useful  when  paired with a TXT output formatting option that is
              not none because links are always removed with plain  text  out‐
              put.

       --keep-links
              Do  not  remove  links  within the document. This is only useful
              when paired with a TXT output formatting option that is not none
              because links are always removed with plain text output.

       --max-line-length
              The  maximum  number  of characters per line. This splits on the
              first space before the specified value. If no space is found the
              line will be broken at the space after and will exceed the spec‐
              ified value. Also, there is a minimum of 25 characters. Use 0 to
              disable line splitting.

       --newline, -n
              Type  of  newline  to  use.  Options  are  ['old_mac', 'system',
              'unix', 'windows']. Default is 'system'. Use 'old_mac' for  com‐
              patibility  with  Mac  OS  9  and earlier. For macOS use 'unix'.
              'system' will default to the newline type used by this OS.

       --pretty-print
              If specified, the output plugin will try to create  output  that
              is  as  human  readable as possible. May not have any effect for
              some output plugins.

       --txt-output-encoding
              Specify the character encoding of the output document.  The  de‐
              fault is utf-8.

       --txt-output-formatting
              Formatting used within the document. * plain: Plain text * mark‐
              down: Markdown formatted text * textile: TexTile formatted text

AUTHOR
       Kovid Goyal

COPYRIGHT
       Kovid Goyal

6.13.0                         February 17, 2023              EBOOK-CONVERT(1)
