MYPY(1)                              Mypy                              MYPY(1)

NAME
       mypy - Optional static typing for Python

SYNOPSIS
       mypy  [-h]  [-v]  [-V]  [-m MODULE] [-p PACKAGE] [-c PROGRAM_TEXT] [OP‐
       TIONS...] [FILES ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Mypy is a static type checker for Python  3  and  Python  2.7.  If  you
       sprinkle your code with type annotations, mypy can type check your code
       and find common bugs. As mypy is a  static  analyzer,  or  a  lint-like
       tool,  the type annotations are just hints for mypy and don’t interfere
       when running your program. You run your program with a standard  Python
       interpreter, and the annotations are treated effectively as comments.

       Using  the Python 3 function annotation syntax (using the PEP 484 nota‐
       tion) or a comment-based annotation syntax for Python 2 code, you  will
       be  able  to  efficiently  annotate your code and use mypy to check the
       code for common errors. Mypy has a powerful and easy-to-use type system
       with  modern features such as type inference, generics, callable types,
       tuple types, union types, and structural subtyping.

       Mypy is invoked with the paths the user needs to check:

          $ mypy foo.py bar.py some_directory

       The directories are checked recursively to find Python source files.

OPTIONS
       This section documents mypy's command line interface. You  can  view  a
       quick summary of the available flags by running mypy --help.

       NOTE:
          Command line flags are liable to change between releases.

   Specifying what to type check
       By  default,  you  can specify what code you want mypy to type check by
       passing in the paths to what you want to have type checked:

          $ mypy foo.py bar.py some_directory

       Note that directories are checked recursively.

       Mypy also lets you specify what code to type  check  in  several  other
       ways. A short summary of the relevant flags is included below: for full
       details, see running-mypy.

       -m MODULE, --module MODULE
              Asks mypy to type check the provided module. This  flag  may  be
              repeated multiple times.

              Mypy  will not recursively type check any submodules of the pro‐
              vided module.

       -p PACKAGE, --package PACKAGE
              Asks mypy to type check the provided package. This flag  may  be
              repeated multiple times.

              Mypy  will recursively type check any submodules of the provided
              package. This flag is identical to --module apart from this  be‐
              havior.

       -c PROGRAM_TEXT, --command PROGRAM_TEXT
              Asks mypy to type check the provided string as a program.

       --exclude
              A  regular  expression  that matches file names, directory names
              and paths which mypy should ignore while recursively discovering
              files to check.  Use forward slashes on all platforms.

              For  instance, to avoid discovering any files named setup.py you
              could pass --exclude '/setup\.py$'. Similarly,  you  can  ignore
              discovering  directories  with  a  given  name by e.g. --exclude
              /build/ or those matching a subpath with --exclude /project/ven‐
              dor/.  To  ignore  multiple files / directories / paths, you can
              provide  the  --exclude  flag  more  than  once,  e.g  --exclude
              '/setup\.py$' --exclude '/build/'.

              Note  that  this flag only affects recursive directory tree dis‐
              covery, that is, when mypy is discovering files within a  direc‐
              tory  tree  or  submodules  of a package to check. If you pass a
              file or module explicitly it will  still  be  checked.  For  in‐
              stance, mypy --exclude '/setup.py$' but_still_check/setup.py.

              In  particular,  --exclude does not affect mypy's import follow‐
              ing. You can use a per-module
              :confval:`follow_imports`
               config option to additionally avoid mypy from following imports
              and checking code you do not wish to be checked.

              Note  that mypy will never recursively discover files and direc‐
              tories named "site-packages", "node_modules"  or  "__pycache__",
              or  those  whose name starts with a period, exactly as --exclude
              '/(site-packages|node_modules|__pycache__|\..*)/$'  would.  Mypy
              will also never recursively discover files with extensions other
              than .py or .pyi.

   Optional arguments
       -h, --help
              Show help message and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              More verbose messages.

       -V, --version
              Show program's version number and exit.

   Config file
       --config-file CONFIG_FILE
              This flag makes mypy read configuration settings from the  given
              file.

              By  default  settings  are read from mypy.ini, .mypy.ini, pypro‐
              ject.toml, or setup.cfg in the current directory. Settings over‐
              ride  mypy's  built-in defaults and command line flags can over‐
              ride settings.

              Specifying --config-file= (with no  filename)  will  ignore  all
              config files.

              See config-file for the syntax of configuration files.

       --warn-unused-configs
              This  flag  makes mypy warn about unused [mypy-<pattern>] config
              file sections.  (This requires turning off incremental mode  us‐
              ing --no-incremental.)

   Import discovery
       The  following  flags  customize how exactly mypy discovers and follows
       imports.

       --explicit-package-bases
              This flag tells mypy that top-level packages will  be  based  in
              either  the current directory, or a member of the MYPYPATH envi‐
              ronment variable or

              :confval:`mypy_path`
               config option. This option is only useful in in the absence  of
              __init__.py. See Mapping file paths to modules for details.

       --ignore-missing-imports
              This  flag  makes mypy ignore all missing imports. It is equiva‐
              lent to adding # type: ignore comments to all unresolved imports
              within your codebase.

              Note that this flag does not suppress errors about missing names
              in successfully resolved modules. For example, if  one  has  the
              following files:

                 package/__init__.py
                 package/mod.py

              Then    mypy   will   generate   the   following   errors   with
              --ignore-missing-imports:

                 import package.unknown      # No error, ignored
                 x = package.unknown.func()  # OK. 'func' is assumed to be of type 'Any'

                 from package import unknown          # No error, ignored
                 from package.mod import NonExisting  # Error: Module has no attribute 'NonExisting'

              For more details, see ignore-missing-imports.

       --follow-imports {normal,silent,skip,error}
              This flag adjusts how mypy follows imported  modules  that  were
              not explicitly passed in via the command line.

              The  default  option  is normal: mypy will follow and type check
              all modules. For more information on what the other options  do,
              see Following imports.

       --python-executable EXECUTABLE
              This  flag  will have mypy collect type information from PEP 561
              compliant packages installed  for  the  Python  executable  EXE‐
              CUTABLE.  If not provided, mypy will use PEP 561 compliant pack‐
              ages installed for the Python executable running mypy.

              See installed-packages for more  on  making  PEP  561  compliant
              packages.

       --no-site-packages
              This flag will disable searching for PEP 561 compliant packages.
              This will also disable searching for a usable Python executable.

              Use this  flag if mypy cannot find a Python executable  for  the
              version  of  Python being checked, and you don't need to use PEP
              561 typed packages.  Otherwise, use --python-executable.

       --no-silence-site-packages
              By default, mypy will  suppress  any  error  messages  generated
              within PEP 561 compliant packages. Adding this flag will disable
              this behavior.

       --fast-module-lookup
              The default logic used to scan through search paths  to  resolve
              imports has a quadratic worse-case behavior in some cases, which
              is for instance triggered by a large number of folders sharing a
              top-level namespace as in:

                 foo/
                     company/
                         foo/
                             a.py
                 bar/
                     company/
                         bar/
                             b.py
                 baz/
                     company/
                         baz/
                             c.py
                 ...

              If  you  are  in  this situation, you can enable an experimental
              fast path by setting the --fast-module-lookup option.

       --no-namespace-packages
              This flag disables import discovery of namespace  packages  (see
              PEP  420).   In  particular, this prevents discovery of packages
              that don't have an __init__.py (or __init__.pyi) file.

              This flag affects how mypy finds modules and packages explicitly
              passed  on the command line. It also affects how mypy determines
              fully qualified module names for files  passed  on  the  command
              line. See Mapping file paths to modules for details.

   Platform configuration
       By default, mypy will assume that you intend to run your code using the
       same operating system and Python version you are using to run mypy  it‐
       self. The following flags let you modify this behavior.

       For  more  information on how to use these flags, see version_and_plat‐
       form_checks.

       --python-version X.Y
              This flag will make mypy type check your code as if it were  run
              under Python version X.Y. Without this option, mypy will default
              to using whatever version of Python is running mypy.

              This flag will attempt to find a Python executable of the corre‐
              sponding  version  to  search for PEP 561 compliant packages. If
              you'd like to disable this, use the --no-site-packages flag (see
              Import discovery for more details).

       --platform PLATFORM
              This  flag will make mypy type check your code as if it were run
              under the given operating system. Without this option, mypy will
              default to using whatever operating system you are currently us‐
              ing.

              The PLATFORM parameter may be any string supported by  sys.plat‐
              form.

       --always-true NAME
              This  flag  will  treat all variables named NAME as compile-time
              constants that are always true.  This flag may be repeated.

       --always-false NAME
              This flag will treat all variables named  NAME  as  compile-time
              constants that are always false.  This flag may be repeated.

   Disallow dynamic typing
       The Any type is used to represent a value that has a dynamic type.  The
       --disallow-any family of flags will disallow various uses  of  the  Any
       type  in a module -- this lets us strategically disallow the use of dy‐
       namic typing in a controlled way.

       The following options are available:

       --disallow-any-unimported
              This flag disallows usage of types that come from unfollowed im‐
              ports  (such  types  become aliases for Any). Unfollowed imports
              occur either when the imported module does  not  exist  or  when
              --follow-imports=skip is set.

       --disallow-any-expr
              This flag disallows all expressions in the module that have type
              Any.  If an expression of type Any appears anywhere in the  mod‐
              ule  mypy  will output an error unless the expression is immedi‐
              ately used as an argument to cast() or assigned  to  a  variable
              with an explicit type annotation.

              In addition, declaring a variable of type Any or casting to type
              Any is not allowed. Note that calling functions that take param‐
              eters of type Any is still allowed.

       --disallow-any-decorated
              This  flag  disallows functions that have Any in their signature
              after decorator transformation.

       --disallow-any-explicit
              This flag disallows explicit Any in type positions such as  type
              annotations and generic type parameters.

       --disallow-any-generics
              This  flag  disallows usage of generic types that do not specify
              explicit type parameters. For example, you can't use a  bare  x:
              list.   Instead,   you  must  always  write  something  like  x:
              list[int].

       --disallow-subclassing-any
              This flag reports an error whenever a class subclasses  a  value
              of  type  Any.   This  may occur when the base class is imported
              from   a    module    that    doesn't    exist    (when    using
              --ignore-missing-imports)     or     is     ignored    due    to
              --follow-imports=skip or a # type: ignore comment on the  import
              statement.

              Since the module is silenced, the imported class is given a type
              of Any.  By default mypy will assume that the subclass correctly
              inherited  the  base  class even though that may not actually be
              the case.  This flag makes mypy raise an error instead.

   Untyped definitions and calls
       The following flags configure how mypy handles untyped function defini‐
       tions or calls.

       --disallow-untyped-calls
              This flag reports an error whenever a function with type annota‐
              tions calls a function defined without annotations.

       --disallow-untyped-defs
              This flag reports an error whenever  it  encounters  a  function
              definition without type annotations.

       --disallow-incomplete-defs
              This flag reports an error whenever it encounters a partly anno‐
              tated function definition.

       --check-untyped-defs
              This flag is less severe than the previous  two  options  --  it
              type checks the body of every function, regardless of whether it
              has type annotations.  (By default the bodies of functions with‐
              out annotations are not type checked.)

              It  will assume all arguments have type Any and always infer Any
              as the return type.

       --disallow-untyped-decorators
              This flag reports an error whenever a function with type annota‐
              tions is decorated with a decorator without annotations.

   None and Optional handling
       The  following  flags adjust how mypy handles values of type None.  For
       more details, see no_strict_optional.

       --implicit-optional
              This flag causes mypy to treat arguments  with  a  None  default
              value as having an implicit Optional type.

              For  example,  if this flag is set, mypy would assume that the x
              parameter is actually of type Optional[int] in the code  snippet
              below since the default parameter is None:

                 def foo(x: int = None) -> None:
                     print(x)

              Note: This was disabled by default starting in mypy 0.980.

       --no-strict-optional
              This  flag  disables  strict checking of Optional types and None
              values. With this option, mypy doesn't generally check  the  use
              of  None  values -- they are valid everywhere. See no_strict_op‐
              tional for more about this feature.

              Note: Strict optional checking was enabled by  default  starting
              in  mypy 0.600, and in previous versions it had to be explicitly
              enabled using --strict-optional (which is still accepted).

   Configuring warnings
       The following flags enable warnings for code that is sound but  is  po‐
       tentially problematic or redundant in some way.

       --warn-redundant-casts
              This flag will make mypy report an error whenever your code uses
              an unnecessary cast that can safely be removed.

       --warn-unused-ignores
              This flag will make mypy report an error whenever your code uses
              a # type: ignore comment on a line that is not actually generat‐
              ing an error message.

              This flag, along with the --warn-redundant-casts flag, are  both
              particularly useful when you are upgrading mypy. Previously, you
              may have needed to add casts or # type:  ignore  annotations  to
              work  around  bugs  in  mypy  or missing stubs for 3rd party li‐
              braries.

              These two flags let you discover cases where either  workarounds
              are no longer necessary.

       --no-warn-no-return
              By default, mypy will generate errors when a function is missing
              return statements in some execution paths. The  only  exceptions
              are when:

              • The function has a None or Any return type

              • The  function  has  an empty body and is marked as an abstract
                method, is in a protocol class, or is in a stub file

              •

                The execution path can never return; for example, if an excep‐
                tion
                       is always raised

              Passing in --no-warn-no-return will disable these error messages
              in all cases.

       --warn-return-any
              This flag causes mypy to generate a  warning  when  returning  a
              value  with type Any from a function declared with a non-Any re‐
              turn type.

       --warn-unreachable
              This flag will make mypy report an error whenever it  encounters
              code  determined to be unreachable or redundant after performing
              type analysis.  This can be a helpful way of  detecting  certain
              kinds of bugs in your code.

              For example, enabling this flag will make mypy report that the x
              > 7 check is redundant and that the else block below is unreach‐
              able.

                 def process(x: int) -> None:
                     # Error: Right operand of "or" is never evaluated
                     if isinstance(x, int) or x > 7:
                         # Error: Unsupported operand types for + ("int" and "str")
                         print(x + "bad")
                     else:
                         # Error: 'Statement is unreachable' error
                         print(x + "bad")

              To  help  prevent  mypy  from  generating spurious warnings, the
              "Statement is unreachable" warning will be silenced  in  exactly
              two cases:

              1. When  the  unreachable  statement is a raise statement, is an
                 assert False statement, or calls  a  function  that  has  the
                 NoReturn  return type hint. In other words, when the unreach‐
                 able statement throws an error or terminates the  program  in
                 some way.

              2. When  the  unreachable  statement was intentionally marked as
                 unreachable using version_and_platform_checks.

              NOTE:
                 Mypy currently cannot detect and report unreachable or redun‐
                 dant  code inside any functions using type-variable-value-re‐
                 striction.

                 This limitation will be removed in future releases of mypy.

   Miscellaneous strictness flags
       This section documents any other flags that do not  neatly  fall  under
       any of the above sections.

       --allow-untyped-globals
              This  flag  causes  mypy  to suppress errors caused by not being
              able to fully infer the types of global and class variables.

       --allow-redefinition
              By default, mypy won't allow a variable to be redefined with  an
              unrelated  type.  This  flag  enables redefinition of a variable
              with an arbitrary type  in  some  contexts:  only  redefinitions
              within  the same block and nesting depth as the original defini‐
              tion are allowed.  Example where this can be useful:

                 def process(items: list[str]) -> None:
                     # 'items' has type list[str]
                     items = [item.split() for item in items]
                     # 'items' now has type list[list[str]]

              The variable must be used before it can be redefined:

                 def process(items: list[str]) -> None:
                    items = "mypy"  # invalid redefinition to str because the variable hasn't been used yet
                    print(items)
                    items = "100"  # valid, items now has type str
                    items = int(items)  # valid, items now has type int

       --local-partial-types
              In mypy, the most common cases for partial types  are  variables
              initialized  using  None,  but without explicit Optional annota‐
              tions. By default, mypy won't check partial types spanning  mod‐
              ule top level or class top level. This flag changes the behavior
              to only allow partial types at local level, therefore it  disal‐
              lows  inferring  variable  type for None from two assignments in
              different scopes. For example:

                 from typing import Optional

                 a = None  # Need type annotation here if using --local-partial-types
                 b: Optional[int] = None

                 class Foo:
                     bar = None  # Need type annotation here if using --local-partial-types
                     baz: Optional[int] = None

                     def __init__(self) -> None:
                         self.bar = 1

                 reveal_type(Foo().bar)  # Union[int, None] without --local-partial-types

              Note: this option is always implicitly enabled  in  mypy  daemon
              and will become enabled by default for mypy in a future release.

       --no-implicit-reexport
              By  default, imported values to a module are treated as exported
              and mypy allows other modules to import them. This flag  changes
              the  behavior to not re-export unless the item is imported using
              from-as or is included in __all__. Note this is  always  treated
              as enabled for stub files. For example:

                 # This won't re-export the value
                 from foo import bar

                 # Neither will this
                 from foo import bar as bang

                 # This will re-export it as bar and allow other modules to import it
                 from foo import bar as bar

                 # This will also re-export bar
                 from foo import bar
                 __all__ = ['bar']

       --strict-equality
              By  default,  mypy  allows  always-false  comparisons like 42 ==
              'no'.  Use this flag to prohibit such comparisons  of  non-over‐
              lapping types, and similar identity and container checks:

                 from typing import Text

                 items: list[int]
                 if 'some string' in items:  # Error: non-overlapping container check!
                     ...

                 text: Text
                 if text != b'other bytes':  # Error: non-overlapping equality check!
                     ...

                 assert text is not None  # OK, check against None is allowed as a special case.

       --strict
              This  flag  mode enables all optional error checking flags.  You
              can see the list of flags enabled by strict  mode  in  the  full
              mypy --help output.

              Note:  the  exact  list of flags enabled by running --strict may
              change over time.

       --disable-error-code
              This flag allows disabling one or multiple error codes globally.
              See error-codes for more information.

                 # no flag
                 x = 'a string'
                 x.trim()  # error: "str" has no attribute "trim"  [attr-defined]

                 # When using --disable-error-code attr-defined
                 x = 'a string'
                 x.trim()

       --enable-error-code
              This  flag allows enabling one or multiple error codes globally.
              See error-codes for more information.

              Note: This flag will override  disabled  error  codes  from  the
              --disable-error-code flag.

                 # When using --disable-error-code attr-defined
                 x = 'a string'
                 x.trim()

                 # --disable-error-code attr-defined --enable-error-code attr-defined
                 x = 'a string'
                 x.trim()  # error: "str" has no attribute "trim"  [attr-defined]

   Configuring error messages
       The following flags let you adjust how much detail mypy displays in er‐
       ror messages.

       --show-error-context
              This flag will precede all errors with "note" messages  explain‐
              ing  the context of the error. For example, consider the follow‐
              ing program:

                 class Test:
                     def foo(self, x: int) -> int:
                         return x + "bar"

              Mypy normally displays an error message that looks like this:

                 main.py:3: error: Unsupported operand types for + ("int" and "str")

              If we enable this flag, the error message now looks like this:

                 main.py: note: In member "foo" of class "Test":
                 main.py:3: error: Unsupported operand types for + ("int" and "str")

       --show-column-numbers
              This flag will add column offsets to error messages.  For  exam‐
              ple, the following indicates an error in line 12, column 9 (note
              that column offsets are 0-based):

                 main.py:12:9: error: Unsupported operand types for / ("int" and "str")

       --show-error-end
              This flag will make mypy show not just that start position where
              an error was detected, but also the end position of the relevant
              expression.  This way various tools  can  easily  highlight  the
              whole    error    span.    The    format    is    file:line:col‐
              umn:end_line:end_column. This option implies  --show-column-num‐
              bers.

       --hide-error-codes
              This flag will hide the error code [<code>] from error messages.
              By default, the error code is shown after each error message:

                 prog.py:1: error: "str" has no attribute "trim"  [attr-defined]

              See error-codes for more information.

       --pretty
              Use visually nicer output in error messages: use soft word wrap,
              show source code snippets, and show error location markers.

       --no-color-output
              This  flag  will disable color output in error messages, enabled
              by default.

       --no-error-summary
              This flag will disable error summary. By default  mypy  shows  a
              summary  line  including total number of errors, number of files
              with errors, and number of files checked.

       --show-absolute-path
              Show absolute paths to files.

       --soft-error-limit N
              This flag will adjust the limit after  which  mypy  will  (some‐
              times)  disable reporting most additional errors. The limit only
              applies if it seems likely that most  of  the  remaining  errors
              will  not  be  useful or they may be overly noisy. If N is nega‐
              tive, there is no limit. The default limit is 200.

   Incremental mode
       By default, mypy will store type information into a  cache.  Mypy  will
       use  this  information  to avoid unnecessary recomputation when it type
       checks your code again.  This can  help  speed  up  the  type  checking
       process,  especially  when  most parts of your program have not changed
       since the previous mypy run.

       If you want to speed up how long it takes to recheck your  code  beyond
       what incremental mode can offer, try running mypy in daemon mode.

       --no-incremental
              This  flag disables incremental mode: mypy will no longer refer‐
              ence the cache when re-run.

              Note that mypy will still write out to the cache even  when  in‐
              cremental  mode  is disabled: see the --cache-dir flag below for
              more details.

       --cache-dir DIR
              By default, mypy stores all cache data inside of a folder  named
              .mypy_cache  in the current directory. This flag lets you change
              this folder. This flag can also be useful for controlling  cache
              use when using remote caching.

              This  setting will override the MYPY_CACHE_DIR environment vari‐
              able if it is set.

              Mypy will also always write to the cache even  when  incremental
              mode is disabled so it can "warm up" the cache. To disable writ‐
              ing  to  the  cache,   use   --cache-dir=/dev/null   (UNIX)   or
              --cache-dir=nul (Windows).

       --sqlite-cache
              Use an SQLite database to store the cache.

       --cache-fine-grained
              Include fine-grained dependency information in the cache for the
              mypy daemon.

       --skip-version-check
              By default, mypy will ignore cache data generated by a different
              version of mypy. This flag disables that behavior.

       --skip-cache-mtime-checks
              Skip cache internal consistency checks based on mtime.

   Advanced options
       The  following flags are useful mostly for people who are interested in
       developing or debugging mypy internals.

       --pdb  This flag will invoke the Python debugger when mypy encounters a
              fatal error.

       --show-traceback, --tb
              If  set,  this  flag will display a full traceback when mypy en‐
              counters a fatal error.

       --raise-exceptions
              Raise exception on fatal error.

       --custom-typing-module MODULE
              This flag lets you use a custom module as a substitute  for  the
              typing module.

       --custom-typeshed-dir DIR
              This  flag specifies the directory where mypy looks for standard
              library typeshed stubs, instead of the typeshed that ships  with
              mypy.   This  is  primarily  intended  to make it easier to test
              typeshed changes before submitting them upstream, but  also  al‐
              lows you to use a forked version of typeshed.

              Note that this doesn't affect third-party library stubs. To test
              third-party stubs, for example try MYPYPATH=stubs/six mypy ....

       --warn-incomplete-stub
              This  flag  modifies  both   the   --disallow-untyped-defs   and
              --disallow-incomplete-defs  flags  so they also report errors if
              stubs in typeshed are missing type annotations or has incomplete
              annotations.  If  both flags are missing, --warn-incomplete-stub
              also does nothing.

              This flag is mainly intended to be used by people who want  con‐
              tribute to typeshed and would like a convenient way to find gaps
              and omissions.

              If you want mypy to report an error when your codebase  uses  an
              untyped  function,  whether that function is defined in typeshed
              or not, use the --disallow-untyped-calls flag. See Untyped defi‐
              nitions and calls for more details.

       --shadow-file SOURCE_FILE SHADOW_FILE
              When  mypy  is  asked to type check SOURCE_FILE, this flag makes
              mypy read from and type check the contents  of  SHADOW_FILE  in‐
              stead.   However,   diagnostics   will   continue  to  refer  to
              SOURCE_FILE.

              Specifying this argument multiple  times  (--shadow-file  X1  Y1
              --shadow-file X2 Y2) will allow mypy to perform multiple substi‐
              tutions.

              This allows tooling to create temporary files with helpful modi‐
              fications without having to change the source file in place. For
              example, suppose we have a pipeline that  adds  reveal_type  for
              certain  variables.  This pipeline is run on original.py to pro‐
              duce temp.py.  Running mypy  --shadow-file  original.py  temp.py
              original.py  will  then cause mypy to type check the contents of
              temp.py instead of  original.py, but error messages  will  still
              reference original.py.

   Report generation
       If  these  flags  are set, mypy will generate a report in the specified
       format into the specified directory.

       --any-exprs-report DIR
              Causes mypy to generate a text file report documenting how  many
              expressions of type Any are present within your codebase.

       --cobertura-xml-report DIR
              Causes  mypy  to generate a Cobertura XML type checking coverage
              report.

              To generate this report, you must either  manually  install  the
              lxml  library  or  specify mypy installation with the setuptools
              extra mypy[reports].

       --html-report / --xslt-html-report DIR
              Causes mypy to generate an HTML type checking coverage report.

              To generate this report, you must either  manually  install  the
              lxml  library  or  specify mypy installation with the setuptools
              extra mypy[reports].

       --linecount-report DIR
              Causes mypy to generate a text file report documenting the func‐
              tions and lines that are typed and untyped within your codebase.

       --linecoverage-report DIR
              Causes mypy to generate a JSON file that maps each source file's
              absolute filename to a list of line numbers that belong to typed
              functions in that file.

       --lineprecision-report DIR
              Causes  mypy to generate a flat text file report with per-module
              statistics of how many lines are typechecked etc.

       --txt-report / --xslt-txt-report DIR
              Causes mypy to generate a text file type checking  coverage  re‐
              port.

              To  generate  this  report, you must either manually install the
              lxml library or specify mypy installation  with  the  setuptools
              extra mypy[reports].

       --xml-report DIR
              Causes mypy to generate an XML type checking coverage report.

              To  generate  this  report, you must either manually install the
              lxml library or specify mypy installation  with  the  setuptools
              extra mypy[reports].

   Miscellaneous
       --install-types
              This flag causes mypy to install known missing stub packages for
              third-party libraries using pip.  It will display the  pip  com‐
              mand  that  will  be  run, and expects a confirmation before in‐
              stalling anything. For security reasons, these stubs are limited
              to  only  a small subset of manually selected packages that have
              been verified by the typeshed team. These packages include  only
              stub files and no executable code.

              If you use this option without providing any files or modules to
              type check, mypy will install stub packages suggested during the
              previous  mypy run. If there are files or modules to type check,
              mypy first type checks those, and proposes  to  install  missing
              stubs  at  the  end  of the run, but only if any missing modules
              were detected.

              NOTE:
                 This is new in mypy 0.900. Previous mypy versions included  a
                 selection  of  third-party  package  stubs, instead of having
                 them installed separately.

       --non-interactive
              When used together with --install-types, this causes mypy to in‐
              stall  all  suggested stub packages using pip without asking for
              confirmation, and then continues to perform type checking  using
              the  installed  stubs,  if some files or modules are provided to
              type check.

              This is implemented as up to two mypy runs internally. The first
              run  is  used to find missing stub packages, and output is shown
              from this run only if no missing stub packages  were  found.  If
              missing  stub  packages  were found, they are installed and then
              another run is performed.

       --junit-xml JUNIT_XML
              Causes mypy to generate a JUnit XML test  result  document  with
              type checking results. This can make it easier to integrate mypy
              with continuous integration (CI) tools.

       --find-occurrences CLASS.MEMBER
              This flag will make mypy print out all usages of a class  member
              based on static type information. This feature is experimental.

       --scripts-are-modules
              This  flag  will  give  command line arguments that appear to be
              scripts (i.e. files whose name does not end  in  .py)  a  module
              name  derived  from  the  script name rather than the fixed name
              __main__.

              This lets you check more than one script in a single mypy  invo‐
              cation.   (The default __main__ is technically more correct, but
              if you have many scripts that import a large package, the behav‐
              ior enabled by this flag is often more convenient.)

ENVIRONMENT
       MYPYPATH
              Additional module search path entries. The format is the same as
              the shell's $PATH: one or more directory pathnames separated  by
              colons.

SEE ALSO
       dmypy(1)

       Full       documentation       is       available       online      at:
       http://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started.html  or   locally
       at: /usr/share/doc/mypy/html (requires mypy-doc package).

AUTHOR
       Jukka Lehtosalo and contributors

                                 Feb 24, 2023                          MYPY(1)
