NBACKUP(1)                  Firebird documentation                  NBACKUP(1)

NAME
       nbackup - Physical backup manager for Firebird

SYNOPSIS
       nbackup [option...] -l|-u|-f database
       nbackup [option...] -b level database file
       nbackup [option...] -r database file0 [file1...]

DESCRIPTION
       nbackup allows making incremental backups of firebird databases. It
       also allows database files to be locked for copying with OS tools like
       cp(1).

COMMANDS
       -l database
       -lock database
           Locks database for filesystem copy.

           Options of the -lock command:

           -s
           -size
               Print database size (in database pages) after locking.

       -un database
       -unlock database
           Unlocks previously locked database.

       -f database
       -fixup database
           Fixup database after filesystem copy. This needs to be done on the
           target database before usage.

       -b level database file
       -backup level database file
           Create incremental backup of level level. Level 0 means full
           backup. Level N includes all the changes since the last backup of
           level N. file may be "stdout" meaning to write the backup data to
           the standard output.

           Additional options to the -backup command:

           -d on|off
           -direct on|off
               Turns on or off direct I/O during database backup.

               Direct I/O may be useful when database is much larger that RAM,
               because in that case using buffered I/O may cause replacing
               useful cache contents with database file contents, which are
               generally read only once.

       -r database file0 [file1...]
       -restore database file0 [file1...]
           Restore incremental backup. file0 is the level 0 backup, file1 is
           the level 1 backup and so on.

           Additional -restore options:

           -de command
           -decompress command
               Decompress backup file contents using the given command.

           Note: -restore should be the last argument to nbackup followed only
           by database and file names. All other options must precede -restore
           or will be interpreted as backup file names.

COMMON OPTIONS
       -u user
       -user user
           User name for connecting to the firebird server.

       -p password
       -password password
           Password for connecting to the firebird server.

       -fetch_password file
           Read password from specified file.

       -nod
       -nodbtriggers
           Do not run database-level triggers.

SEE ALSO
       gbak(1)

       Additional documentation about nbackup and other Firebird utilities can
       be found on the Firebird Project website, <http://www.firebirdsql.org>.

AUTHOR
       Original idea is of Sean Leyne sean@broadviewsoftware.com.  Designed
       and implemented by Nickolay Samofatov skidder@bssys.com.  This work was
       funded through a grant from BroadView Software, Inc.

       This manual page was written by Damyan Ivanov dmn@debian.org for the
       Debian project. Permission is granted to use this document, with or
       without modifications, provided that this notice is retained. If we
       meet some day, and you think this stuff is worth it, you can buy me a
       beer in return.

Firebird 3.0                      2025-08-25                        NBACKUP(1)
