HALT(8)                              halt                              HALT(8)

NAME
       halt, poweroff, reboot - Halt, power-off or reboot the machine

SYNOPSIS
       halt [OPTIONS...]

       poweroff [OPTIONS...]

       reboot [OPTIONS...]

DESCRIPTION
       halt, poweroff, reboot may be used to halt, power-off, or reboot the
       machine. All three commands take the same options.

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       --help
           Print a short help text and exit.

       --halt
           Halt the machine, regardless of which one of the three commands is
           invoked.

       -p, --poweroff
           Power-off the machine, when either halt or poweroff is invoked.
           This option is ignored when reboot is invoked.

       --reboot
           Reboot the machine, regardless of which one of the three commands
           is invoked.

       -f, --force
           Force immediate halt, power-off, reboot. If specified, the command
           does not contact the init system. In most cases, filesystems are
           not properly unmounted before shutdown. For example, the command
           reboot -f is mostly equivalent to systemctl reboot -ff, instead of
           systemctl reboot -f.

       -w, --wtmp-only
           Only write wtmp shutdown entry, do not actually halt, power-off,
           reboot.

       -d, --no-wtmp
           Do not write wtmp shutdown entry.

       -n, --no-sync
           Don't sync hard disks/storage media before halt, power-off, reboot.

       --no-wall
           Do not send wall message before halt, power-off, reboot.

EXIT STATUS
       On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

NOTES
       These commands are implemented in a way that preserves basic
       compatibility with the original SysV commands.  systemctl(1) verbs
       halt, poweroff, reboot provide the same functionality with some
       additional features.

       Note that on many SysV systems halt used to be synonymous to poweroff,
       i.e. both commands would equally result in powering the machine off.
       systemd is more accurate here, and halt results in halting the machine
       only (leaving power on), and poweroff is required to actually power it
       off.

SEE ALSO
       systemd(1), systemctl(1), shutdown(8), wall(1)

systemd 252                                                            HALT(8)
