RPI-IMAGER(1)               General Commands Manual              RPI-IMAGER(1)

NAME
       rpi-imager - Flash disk images to removable storage

SYNOPSIS
       rpi-imager [--debug] [--repo url] [--qm translations]
                  [--disable-telemetry] [--enable-secure-boot] [image-uri]

       rpi-imager --cli [--debug] [--quiet] [--disable-verify]
                  [--sha256 expected-hash] [--secure-boot-key key-file] image-
                  uri destination-device

       rpi-imager --version

       rpi-imager --help

DESCRIPTION
       rpi-imager is a utility for writing a disk image file,  which  may  op‐
       tionally  be compressed, to a removable destination disk, such as a mi‐
       cro-SD card or a USB-attached SSD drive.

       When run without further command line arguments, the utility presents a
       simple graphical interface with controls for image-file selection, tar‐
       get drive selection, and one to start writing. In this mode, the  Rasp‐
       berry  Pi  server (and potentially third party servers) will be queried
       for available OS images.  You may also specify an image-uri (which  may
       be a local file, or an HTTP or HTTPS URL) to flash directly on the com‐
       mand line.

       When run with the --cli argument, the utility directly flashes the  im‐
       age-uri  given  to  the specified destination-drive.  In this case, the
       --sha256 option can be used to pass in the expected SHA256 checksum  of
       the image.

OPTIONS
       --cli  Do  not  launch  the  graphical  interface; just flash the image
              given to the specified drive. In this mode,  the  image-uri  and
              destination-device must both be specified.

       --debug
              Output extra debugging information on the console.

       --disable-telemetry
              Do  not  report  OS  writes  to http://rpi-imager-stats.raspber‐
              rypi.com/

       --disable-verify
              After writing the image, do not attempt to verify that the image
              was written correctly.  Only valid when run with --cli.

       --enable-secure-boot
              Force  enable the secure boot customization step in the GUI, re‐
              gardless of whether the selected operating system declares  sup‐
              port for secure boot via its capabilities flag. Useful for test‐
              ing or advanced usage scenarios where secure boot signing should
              be  available  even  for operating systems that don't explicitly
              advertise the feature.

       --help Display a synopsis of the command line syntax and exit.

       --quiet
              Suppress all console output.  Only valid when run with --cli.

       --qm translations
              Specify an alternate Qt message translations file  to  use  with
              the GUI.

       --repo url
              Instead  of  querying  the  Raspberry Pi servers for the list of
              available OS images, query this URL instead. The URL will be ex‐
              pected  to return a JSON file conforming to the format described
              in the associated json-schema.

       --secure-boot-key key-file
              Path to an RSA 2048-bit private key file in PEM format for sign‐
              ing  the boot partition to enable Raspberry Pi secure boot. When
              specified, the utility will create boot.img and  boot.sig  files
              on  the boot partition. The key file must exist and be readable.
              This option can be combined  with  other  customization  options
              like  --first-run-script  or  --cloudinit-userdata.   Only valid
              when run with --cli.

       --sha256 expected-hash
              Verify that the image matches the expected-hash  before  writing
              it  to  the  specified  destination.   Only  valid when run with
              --cli.

       --version
              Report the version of the utility, and the default URI  it  will
              attempt to query to determine the available OS images.

       image-uri
              If  specified, the URI of the image to write to the destination.
              This may be a local file, or a remote URL supporting the HTTP or
              HTTPS protocols. This must be specified when using --cli.

       destination-device
              The device to which to write the specified image, e.g.  /dev/mm‐
              cblk0.  Only valid when run with --cli.

EXAMPLES
       rpi-imager
              Launch the graphical interface.

       rpi-imager --repo http://localhost:8080/os_list_utility.json
              Test a locally hosted version of the OS list with the  graphical
              interface.

       rpi-imager --cli --disable-verify test.img /dev/mmcblk0
              Write  test.img  to /dev/mmcblk0 without any verification of the
              image itself, and no check that  the  image  flashed  correctly.
              This also avoids launching the graphical interface.

       rpi-imager  --cli  --secure-boot-key  ~/secure-boot-key.pem raspios.img
       /dev/mmcblk0
              Write raspios.img to /dev/mmcblk0 and sign  the  boot  partition
              with the RSA private key located at ~/secure-boot-key.pem.  This
              enables Raspberry Pi secure boot verification.

       rpi-imager --enable-secure-boot
              Launch the graphical interface with  secure  boot  customization
              step  enabled for all operating systems, regardless of their de‐
              clared capabilities. The RSA key must still be configured in the
              App Options dialog.

SEE ALSO
       dd(1)

                                                                 RPI-IMAGER(1)
