STUBGEN(1)                           Mypy                           STUBGEN(1)

NAME
       stubgen - Generate draft type hint stubs for Python modules

SYNOPSIS
       stubgen [-h] [-py2] [-m MODULE] [-p PACKAGE] [OPTIONS...] [FILES...]

DESCRIPTION
       Mypy  is  a  static  type checker for Python 3 and Python 2.7. Mypy in‐
       cludes the stubgen tool that  can  automatically  generate  stub  files
       (.pyi files) for Python modules and C extension modules.

       A  stub  file (see PEP 484) contains only type hints for the public in‐
       terface of a module, with empty function bodies. Mypy can  use  a  stub
       file instead of the real implementation to provide type information for
       the module. They are useful for third-party modules whose authors  have
       not  yet added type hints (and when no stubs are available in typeshed)
       and C extension modules (which mypy can’t directly process).

       Stubgen generates draft stubs. The auto-generated stub files often  re‐
       quire  some  manual  updates,  and  most types will default to Any. The
       stubs will be much more useful if you add  more  precise  type  annota‐
       tions, at least for the most commonly used functionality.

OPTIONS
       NOTE:
          The command-line flags may change between releases.

   Specifying what to stub
       You  can  give  stubgen paths of the source files for which you want to
       generate stubs:

          $ stubgen foo.py bar.py

       This generates stubs out/foo.pyi and out/bar.pyi.  The  default  output
       directory out can be overridden with -o DIR.

       You can also pass directories, and stubgen will recursively search them
       for any .py files and generate stubs for all of them:

          $ stubgen my_pkg_dir

       Alternatively, you can give module or package names using the -m or  -p
       options:

          $ stubgen -m foo -m bar -p my_pkg_dir

       Details of the options:

       -m MODULE, --module MODULE
              Generate  a stub file for the given module. This flag may be re‐
              peated multiple times.

              Stubgen will not recursively generate stubs for  any  submodules
              of the provided module.

       -p PACKAGE, --package PACKAGE
              Generate  stubs  for the given package. This flag maybe repeated
              multiple times.

              Stubgen will recursively generate stubs for  all  submodules  of
              the  provided  package. This flag is identical to --module apart
              from this behavior.

       NOTE:
          You can't mix paths and -m/-p options in the  same  stubgen  invoca‐
          tion.

       Stubgen  applies  heuristics  to  avoid generating stubs for submodules
       that include tests or vendored third-party packages.

   Specifying how to generate stubs
       By default stubgen will try to import the target modules and  packages.
       This  allows stubgen to use runtime introspection to generate stubs for
       C extension modules and to improve the quality of the generated  stubs.
       By default, stubgen will also use mypy to perform light-weight semantic
       analysis of any Python modules. Use the following flags  to  alter  the
       default behavior:

       --no-import
              Don't  try  to  import  modules.  Instead only use mypy's normal
              search mechanism to find sources. This does not support C exten‐
              sion  modules.  This  flag  also  disables runtime introspection
              functionality, which mypy uses to find the value of __all__.  As
              result the set of exported imported names in stubs may be incom‐
              plete. This flag is generally only useful when importing a  mod‐
              ule  causes unwanted side effects, such as the running of tests.
              Stubgen tries to skip test modules even without this option, but
              this does not always work.

       --parse-only
              Don't perform semantic analysis of source files. This may gener‐
              ate worse stubs -- in particular, some module, class, and  func‐
              tion  aliases may be represented as variables with the Any type.
              This is generally only useful  if  semantic  analysis  causes  a
              critical mypy error.

       --doc-dir PATH
              Try  to infer better signatures by parsing .rst documentation in
              PATH.  This may result in better stubs, but  currently  it  only
              works for C extension modules.

   Additional flags
       -h, --help
              Show help message and exit.

       --ignore-errors
              If  an  exception was raised during stub generation, continue to
              process any remaining modules  instead  of  immediately  failing
              with an error.

       --include-private
              Include  definitions  that are considered private in stubs (with
              names such as _foo with single leading underscore and no  trail‐
              ing underscores).

       --export-less
              Don't  export  all  names imported from other modules within the
              same package.  Instead, only export imported names that are  not
              referenced in the module that contains the import.

       --search-path PATH
              Specify  module  search  directories,  separated by colons (only
              used if --no-import is given).

       -o PATH, --output PATH
              Change the output directory. By default the stubs are written in
              the  ./out directory. The output directory will be created if it
              doesn't exist. Existing stubs in the output  directory  will  be
              overwritten without warning.

       -v, --verbose
              Produce more verbose output.

       -q, --quiet
              Produce less verbose output.

ENVIRONMENT
       MYPYPATH
              Additional module search path entries. The format is the same as
              the shell's $PATH: one or more directory pathnames separated  by
              colons.

SEE ALSO
       mypy(1)

       Full       documentation       is       available       online      at:
       https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/stubgen.html   or   locally   at:
       /usr/share/doc/mypy/html (requires mypy-doc package).

AUTHOR
       Jukka Lehtosalo and contributors

                                 Feb 24, 2023                       STUBGEN(1)
