vnclicense(1)                         VNC                        vnclicense(1)

NAME
       vnclicense - VNC® Server offline licensing utility

SYNOPSIS
       vnclicense [OPTION...] COMMAND

DESCRIPTION
       vnclicense  applies  an offline license to VNC Server, and performs re‐
       lated             auxiliary              operations.              Visit
       https://www.realvnc.com/docs/faq/#licensing for more on licensing.

       Run  vnclicense  -add  FILE  as  root to apply an offline license file.
       This operation can also be performed via the VNC Server user interface.
       FILE  must  be  an  offline license file obtained from RealVNC (usually
       with a .lic extension).  The file is copied  to  /etc/vnc/licenses/vnc‐
       server/vnc.lic.

       If VNC Server is hosted on a network share, you should instead copy the
       offline license file  to  <install-dir>/vnc/licenses/vncserver/vnc.lic,
       where  <install-dir>  is  the  directory  where the executables are in‐
       stalled.  Run vnclicense -reload to  cause  running  instances  of  VNC
       Server to apply the new license.

       Note  that  if  VNC  Server in Service Mode has been licensed online by
       signing in to a RealVNC account then it ignores any offline license.

COMMANDS
       Valid commands are:

       -add FILE
              Apply the offline license FILE,  overwriting  any  existing  li‐
              cense.  Must be run as root.

       -remove
              Remove the current offline license.  Must be run as root.

       -list  Print information about the current offline license.

       -info FILE
              Print information about the given offline license FILE.

       -check Check  how many instances of VNC Server are running on this com‐
              puter.  Returns 0 (success) if the current  offline  license  is
              valid  for this many computer desktops.  It cannot check whether
              you exceed the total number of licensed desktops if you run  VNC
              Server on multiple computers.

       -reload
              Reload  the  offline  license and other settings for all running
              instances of VNC Server for the current user.  Run as root to do
              the  same  for  all users.  Note that vnclicense -add and vncli‐
              cense -remove do this already.

OPTIONS
       For a list of options, run vnclicense -help.

SEE ALSO
       vncserver-x11(1), vncserver-x11-serviced(1), vncserver-virtual(1), vnc‐
       server-virtuald(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright © RealVNC Ltd.

       RealVNC  and  VNC  are  trademarks  of RealVNC Ltd and are protected by
       trademark registrations and/or pending trademark  applications  in  the
       European Union, United States of America and other jurisdictions.  Pro‐
       tected by UK patent 2481870; US patent 8760366; EU patent 2652951.

       https://www.realvnc.com

RealVNC Ltd                      December 2022                   vnclicense(1)
