vncserver-x11(1)                      VNC                     vncserver-x11(1)

NAME
       vncserver-x11 - VNC® Server in User Mode

SYNOPSIS
       vncserver-x11 [OPTION...]

       vncserver-x11 [MODE] [OPTION...] COMMAND

DESCRIPTION
       vncserver-x11  starts  VNC Server in User Mode, to allow the desktop of
       the currently-logged on user to be remoted to  VNC  Viewer  on  another
       computer.   When  this  user  is  logged  out, VNC Server automatically
       stops; all VNC Viewer users are  disconnected,  and  cannot  reconnect.
       Note that a suitable offline license is required; see vnclicense(1).

       Run vncserver-x11 to start VNC Server and wait for connections.  A user
       interface consisting of a status dialog and, if supported by the window
       manager, a status icon is displayed, providing connectivity information
       and convenient access to features such as file transfer and chat.   The
       status  dialog  shows information about how to connect and authenticate
       from VNC Viewer on another computer.

       Note that an instance of vncserver-x11 is automatically started (as the
       root  user)  by  VNC  Server  in  Service  Mode; see vncserver-x11-ser‐
       viced(1).

       vncserver-x11 consumes one computer 'desktop' from  your  subscription.
       See vnclicense(1) for how to check licensing details.

COMMANDS
       Applying a command to vncserver-x11 performs an auxiliary operation in‐
       stead of starting VNC Server.

       To see a list of valid commands, run vncserver-x11 -help.

MODE
       To apply a COMMAND to the privileged instance of vncserver-x11  started
       by  VNC  Server  in  Service  Mode, run the command as root and specify
       -service.

       Otherwise, commands apply automatically to VNC Server in User Mode.

OPTIONS
       Options are parameters, used to configure VNC Server, and also the fol‐
       lowing:

       -iconnect HOST[::PORT]
              Establishes  a  reverse  connection to a Listening VNC Viewer on
              HOST at PORT (5500 by default). See vncviewer(1).

       -newinstance
              Starts a new instance of VNC Server, providing your subscription
              permits; see vnclicense(1).  By default, running vncserver-x11 a
              second time interacts with the first instance.

       -showstatus
              Displays the status dialog and status icon. This may  be  useful
              to force display in some desktop environments.

       -vncconfigfile FILE
              For  convenience,  if you have many parameters to specify at the
              command line, populate a text file (one parameter per line; omit
              the dash) and reference it using this flag.

       To see a list of valid parameters, run vncserver-x11 -help.

VNC CONFIGURATION FILES
       Parameters  can be specified as command line OPTIONS, but preferably in
       VNC configuration files. VNC configuration files are available for:

       • All programs, or just VNC Server

       • All users of the computer, or just the user starting VNC Server

       • Policy, in order to lock down VNC Server

       When VNC Server starts, parameters are applied in the following order:

       1. System-wide VNC configuration files

       2. Per-user VNC configuration files

       3. Command line OPTIONS

       4. Policy VNC configuration files

       This means that a particular parameter specified at  the  command  line
       overrides  the  same  parameter  specified  in  a per-user or in a sys‐
       tem-wide VNC configuration file, but is itself overridden by  the  same
       parameter  specified  in a policy VNC configuration file. Policy cannot
       be changed by users.

       Note there is a disadvantage to specifying parameters  at  the  command
       line:  parameters  cannot  be reloaded while VNC Server is running. VNC
       configuration files can be reloaded,  however,  which  means  that  VNC
       Server can be reconfigured without downtime.

       For   a   full   list  of  available  VNC  configuration  files,  visit
       https://www.realvnc.com/docs/configure-vnc.html#configure-vnc-files

LOGGING
       By  default,   vncserver-x11   logs   basic   activity   to   file   at
       $HOME/.vnc/vncserver-x11.log.

       To  change  the log quality, quantity, or destination, specify the Log,
       LogDir, and LogFile parameters.

SEE ALSO
       vncserver-x11-serviced(1),   vnclicense(1),   vncinitconfig(1),    vnc‐
       passwd(1), vncviewer(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright © RealVNC Ltd.

       RealVNC  and  VNC  are  trademarks  of RealVNC Ltd and are protected by
       trademark registrations and/or pending trademark  applications  in  the
       European Union, United States of America and other jurisdictions.  Pro‐
       tected by UK patent 2481870; US patent 8760366; EU patent 2652951.

       https://www.realvnc.com

RealVNC Ltd                      December 2022                vncserver-x11(1)
