vncserver-x11-serviced(1)             VNC            vncserver-x11-serviced(1)

NAME
       vncserver-x11-serviced - VNC® Server in Service Mode

SYNOPSIS
       vncserver-x11-serviced [OPTION...] [COMMAND]

DESCRIPTION
       vncserver-x11-serviced  is  a  daemon that starts VNC Server in Service
       Mode, to allow the console desktop of the computer to be remoted to VNC
       Viewer  on  another  computer. This may be the desktop of the currently
       logged-on user, or else the login screen. The  daemon  can  be  started
       manually,  but  is  designed to be started automatically at system boot
       time; see Starting the daemon. Note that the daemon survives a  restart
       of the X server.

       The  daemon  runs vncserver-x11 as the root user; see vncserver-x11(1).
       This means that to work with VNC Server in Service  Mode  you  actually
       interact  with  a privileged instance of the same program as VNC Server
       in User Mode; see VNC configuration files.

       A user interface consisting of a status dialog and, if supported by the
       window  manager, a status icon is displayed, providing connectivity in‐
       formation and convenient access to features such as file  transfer  and
       chat.  The status dialog shows information about how to connect and au‐
       thenticate from VNC Viewer on another computer.

       vncserver-x11-serviced consumes one computer 'desktop' from  your  sub‐
       scription.  See vnclicense(1) for how to check licensing details.

OPTIONS
       -fg    Runs  in  the  foreground (not as a daemon), which may be useful
              for troubleshooting.

VNC CONFIGURATION FILES
       To configure VNC Server in Service Mode, specify parameters for the in‐
       stance  of  vncserver-x11  owned by the root user. See vncserver-x11(1)
       for more information.

USER INTERFACE
       Under some window managers, VNC Server is unable to determine the iden‐
       tity of the current desktop owner, and consequently the VNC Server user
       interface (a status dialog and icon) cannot be automatically displayed.
       If  this  is the case, run the following command (as the desktop owner,
       not as root):

          vncserverui -serviceui

       It may be convenient to include this in a user's .xsession file (or ap‐
       propriate startup file for the desktop environment).

STARTING THE DAEMON
       A  suitable init script should have been installed with VNC Server; see
       vncinitconfig(1). To start the daemon manually:

       • For a Linux distribution using Xsystemd,  run  systemctl  start  vnc‐
         server-x11-serviced.service

       • For   a   Linux  distribution  using  Xinit.d,  run  /etc/init.d/vnc‐
         server-x11-serviced start

       • For a Debian-compatible Linux distribution using  Xinit.d,  (alterna‐
         tively) run service vncserver-x11-serviced start

       To  start  the daemon automatically at system boot time, use the appro‐
       priate configuration tool for your system:

       • For a Linux distribution using Xsystemd, run  systemctl  enable  vnc‐
         server-x11-serviced.service

       • For  a  Debian-compatible  Linux  distribution using Xinit.d, run up‐
         date-rc.d vncserver-x11-serviced defaults

       • For a Red Hat-compatible Linux distribution using Xinit.d,  run  chk‐
         config --add vncserver-x11-serviced

LOGGING
       See vncserver-x11(1).

       To  change  the log quality, quantity, or destination, specify the Log,
       LogDir, and LogFile parameters.

SEE ALSO
       vncserver-x11(1),   vnclicense(1),   vncinitconfig(1),    vncpasswd(1),
       vncviewer(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright © RealVNC Ltd.

       RealVNC  and  VNC  are  trademarks  of RealVNC Ltd and are protected by
       trademark registrations and/or pending trademark  applications  in  the
       European Union, United States of America and other jurisdictions.  Pro‐
       tected by UK patent 2481870; US patent 8760366; EU patent 2652951.

       https://www.realvnc.com

RealVNC Ltd                      December 2022       vncserver-x11-serviced(1)
