WEB2DISK(1)                         calibre                        WEB2DISK(1)

NAME
       web2disk - web2disk

          web2disk URL

       Where URL is for example https://google.com

       Whenever  you  pass arguments to web2disk that have spaces in them, en‐
       close the arguments in quotation marks. For example:  "/some  path/with
       spaces"

[OPTIONS]
       --base-dir, -d
              Base folder into which URL is saved. Default is .

       --delay
              Minimum interval in seconds between consecutive fetches. Default
              is 0 s

       --dont-download-stylesheets
              Do not download CSS stylesheets.

       --encoding
              The character encoding for the websites you are trying to  down‐
              load. The default is to try and guess the encoding.

       --filter-regexp
              Any  link  that matches this regular expression will be ignored.
              This option can be specified multiple times, in  which  case  as
              long  as  any  regexp matches a link, it will be ignored. By de‐
              fault, no links are ignored. If both  filter  regexp  and  match
              regexp are specified, then filter regexp is applied first.

       --help, -h
              show this help message and exit

       --match-regexp
              Only  links that match this regular expression will be followed.
              This option can be specified multiple times, in  which  case  as
              long  as  a link matches any one regexp, it will be followed. By
              default all links are followed.

       --max-files, -n
              The maximum number of files to download. This  only  applies  to
              files from <a href> tags. Default is 9223372036854775807

       --max-recursions, -r
              Maximum  number of levels to recurse i.e. depth of links to fol‐
              low. Default 1

       --timeout, -t
              Timeout in seconds to wait for a response from the  server.  De‐
              fault: 10.0 s

       --verbose
              Show detailed output information. Useful for debugging

       --version
              show program's version number and exit

AUTHOR
       Kovid Goyal

COPYRIGHT
       Kovid Goyal

6.13.0                         February 17, 2023                   WEB2DISK(1)
