Usage: gprofng archive [OPTION(S)] EXPERIMENT

Archive the associated application binaries and source files in a gprofng
experiment to make it self contained and portable.

Options:

 --version           print the version number and exit.
 --help              print usage information and exit.
 --verbose {on|off}  enable (on) or disable (off) verbose mode; the default is "off".

 -a {off|on|ldobjects|src|usedldobjects|usedsrc}  specify archiving of binaries and other files;
                    in addition to disable this feature (off), or enable archiving off all
                    loadobjects and sources (on), the other options support a more
                    refined selection. All of these options enable archiving, but the
                    keyword controls what exactly is selected: all load objects (ldobjects),
                    all source files (src), the loadobjects asscoiated with a program counter
                    (usedldobjects), or the source files associated with a program counter
                    (usedsrc); the default is "-a ldobjects".

 -n                 archive the named experiment only, not any of its descendants.

 -q                 do not write any warnings to stderr; messages are archived and
                    can be retrieved later.

 -F                 force writing or rewriting of the archive; ignored with the -n
                    or -m options, or if this is a subexperiment.

 -d <path>          specifies the location of a common archive; this is a directory that
                    contains archived files.

 -m <regex>         archive only those source, object, and debug info files whose full
                    path name matches the given POSIX compliant regular expression.

Limitations:

Default archiving does not occur in case the application profiled terminates prematurely,
or if archiving is disabled when collecting the performance data. In such cases, this
tool can be used to afterwards archive the information, but it has to run on the same 
system where the profiling data was recorded.

Documentation:

A getting started guide for gprofng is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the info and
gprofng programs are properly installed at your site, the command "info gprofng"
should give you access to this document.

See also:

gprofng(1), gp-collect-app(1), gp-display-html(1), gp-display-src(1), gp-display-text(1)
